James Cameron and the Future of Cinema
This past week at Cinemacon, which is known as the ""official convention of the National Organization of Theatre Owners"" or NATO (really?), industry professionals of all sorts gathered at Caesar's Palace in Las Vegas. The convention, previously known as ShoWest is ""the largest cinema trade show in the world"" (www.cinemacon.com) It was at this convention that filmmaker James Cameron (Titanic, Avatar) delivered a presentation entitled ""A Demonstration and Exclusive Look at the Future of Cinema."" The last time Cameron spoke at ShoWest, he and George Lucas had presented a plea to the movie industry to begin its huge investment in digital filmmaking technology in preparation of the 3D revolution that was bound to take over cinema. One year removed from the release of Cameron's technologically groundbreaking and box office titan Avatar , the film industry seems to have done exactly what Cameron and Lucas predicted. With the addition of digital projection systems to nearly every major cineplex or theater around the nation and of course the overwhelming use of 3D, one cannot help but trust that Cameron knows what he is talking about.When he spoke this year at Cinemacon, he, once again, spoke of a revolution. Instead of promoting 3D cinema, this time around Cameron talked framerates. Framerates, for those not fluent in film jargon, is the term used to describe the speed at which a camera shoots and subsequently plays back individual frames on a film strip. The industry standard has been 24 frames per second (fps) since around the mid-20""s, as it is believed to be the closest to mimicking reality. However, filmmakers have always experimented with framerates whether it be shooting at slower frame rates to produce a sensation of fast motion (think: the this scene in Stanley Kubrick's A Clockwork Orange) or shooting at faster framerates like 48 fps to produce what is known as slow motion (think: sports instant replays, or this funny video."" Advertisement Cameron wants the industry standard to change. He believes that by making the industry standard something like 48 fps, not only does the clarity of the image go from ""Good"" to ""Holy S%@#!,"" he believes it will improve and smooth out any movement that the camera utilizes. With handheld footage practically being an independent film standard, it will help translate to a smoother, more pleasurable film experience. His argument is an interesting one and one that is technically relevant and affordable for all kinds of filmmakers. With the almost overwhelming transition from film to digital, the cost of shooting at higher framerates is almost null and void. Most of the newest digital video cameras like Canon's 5D and 7D already shoot at a standard close to 30 fps. So, shooting digitally, one doesn't have to empty their wallet too much to afford to shoot at higher framerates. That being said, Cameron's proposal presents an interesting direction for the future of cinema. Many filmmakers like Peter Jackson and of course James Cameron have already experimented with increased framerates, and their arument is surely a compelling one, one the industry will have to keep an eye on. 