Brit framer buried in unmarked grave is outlaw behind Robin Hood legend?
A historian has claimed that a farmer buried in an unmarked tomb in Britain, could have been the outlaw who became the basis for the Robin Hood legend. David Baldwin, 64, claims that a grave in Warwickshire that is half covered in moss and with no headstone belongs to Roger Godberd, a 13th century farmer who committed burglaries, arson and murder like Robin Hood. He has written a book setting out the evidence in favour of his claim that Godberd was Robin Hood, and according to his research, Godberd lived from the early 1230s to the 1290s, led a gang of outlaws. Medieval court documents show that his band of men ranged across Leicestershire, Nottinghamshire and Wiltshire terrorising the wealthy and that he was eventually imprisoned for his crimes. He was even accused of poaching deer in Sherwood Forest along with his companion Walter Devyas - believed to be the Little John of popular legend. ""The story of Robin Hood is a mystery which has captured people's imaginations,"" the Daily Mail quoted Baldwin, a retired university lecturer and author from Leicester, as saying. ""Some of the individuals who have been identified as Robin in the past have something to be said for them but none are entirely convincing. ""Robin Hood is a composite character in that stories told of other outlaws have been borrowed over the years and added to his legend. ""There are probably several outlaws whose deeds have contributed to the modern-day stories of Robin Hood. ""But I believe there is one man whose career underpins the stories. His name is Roger Godberd and he was an outlaw who was active in the late 1260s. ""Quite a number of his activities seem to be replicated in the stories found in the earliest Robin Hood ballads. ""He poached deer in Sherwood Forest, was captured by the Sheriff of Nottingham, was imprisoned in Nottingham Castle and had the assistance of a friendly knight who helped him stay one step ahead of the law. ""He certainly robbed churchmen, just as the legendary Robin Hood did. ""It has been claimed that the legendary Robin Hood figure lived as early as the reign of Richard the Lionheart and as late as that of Edward II - a period of up to 140 years. ""But Walter Bower, one of the earliest writers to mention Robin Hood, says that he was forced into outlawry after being involved in Simon De Montfort's rebellion in the 1260s. ""Roger Godberd was one of Simon de Montfort's supporters which ties in with this very well. His name has been mentioned in some of earlier books about Robin, but the evidence has never been fully examined before,"" he said. After evading the authorities for years, Godberd was eventually captured in the early 1270s and jailed, but he was pardoned at his trial at the Tower of London and returned to his farm where he lived until his death. ""I believe Godberd's career inspired some of the early ballads, and I hope the book will encourage people to re-examine what they believe they know about Robin Hood,"" Baldwin added. Robin Hood - the English Outlaw Unmasked published by Amberley Publishing costs 9.99 pounds. 