""Mad Men"" creator now glad man
Settling of differences puts series on path to resume next March Detroit News wire services Matthew Weiner, the creator of the Emmy-winning AMC series ""Mad Men,"" needs to be peeled off the ceiling. ""I'm just so pleased,"" Weiner said, hours after the announcement that he will remain with the series for the show's final three seasons. ""Mad Men"" is an hourlong drama about fast-living advertising executives in 1960s New York City. Weiner, whose protracted contract negotiations with AMC became a major media story in recent days, planned to return to his office Friday to begin mapping out the season. The show, which normally runs in the summer, had already been pushed to early next year, in part because of the contract dispute. His writing staff will join him four to five weeks later, with production scheduled to begin in July. The show is set to return to the network's schedule in March of 2012. ""It's not desirable to be off the air this long,"" said Weiner, noting the more than 17-month gap between Seasons Four and Five, adding that he fought to get back on the air sooner but was resisted — and ultimately denied — by the network. While Weiner will be paid handsomely for staying with the show — people familiar with his contract say it is worth close to $10 million a season — money was not the main issue threatening his status. AMC had wanted to add commercials to ""Mad Men"" and Lionsgate wanted to cut talent to reduce costs in production of the expensive period drama. AMC had also wanted to pursue more product placement and product integration in the show to help recoup its costs. A compromise of sorts was reached on the commercials. The first and last episodes of the upcoming fifth season will run at 47 minutes and the rest of the episodes will run at 45 minutes. Weiner will have the option to make those other episodes at 47 minutes for other platforms including video on demand, DVD and iTunes. With regard to the cast, people close to the show said the main characters are all locked in for the next two seasons, which is how long AMC's current deal with Lionsgate for the show runs. Weiner said any cast changes will be made for creative reasons, not financial ones. A seventh season with Weiner onboard is likely unless AMC decides it is ready to move on from the series or the bulk of the cast is not renewed. ""I've never known, even the first season, if I was going to be back,"" he said. ""I'm still going to put everything I have into every episode, but seven seasons seems like the right length for the life of the show and I'm very excited knowing that I have that canvas to paint on."" ""Mad Man"" won three Emmy Awards and helped boost AMC from an also-ran cable network to a first-tier channel. It now has other successful original shows including ""The Walking Dead"" and ""Breaking Bad"" and it has been able to boost both the dollars it attracts from advertisers and TV distributor fees. Subscribe to Detroit News home delivery and receive a SPECIAL INTRODUCTORY OFFER. 