The rise of the Twitter tribes
Lady Gaga's rounding up the Monsters, and Rihanna got her fans joining the Navy. Meanwhile, Pixie Lott is all about the Crazycats Following pop stars on Twitter is clearly a brilliant way to pass the time. How else are we supposed to know that Craig David is off to the gym to ""fine tune the physique ... lol"" or that Taio Cruz has ""had a couple weeks of no shades wearing""? It collapses the barrier between pop star and pop fan, encouraging dialogue (mainly things like, ""@onedirection OMG Harry if you don't follow me back I'll cry 4ever, plz RT"") and gives the pop star (or his/her record label) access to millions of fans that can be crowd-sourced in no more than 140 characters. Recently, that dialogue has been enhanced by the creation of so-called Twitter tribes, a way for fans to pledge allegiance to their favourite pop star and feel part of their world without having to part with a £30 annual fee for a badge and photocopied autograph. Nowadays, it's all about deciding whose side you're on, and hashtagging like your life depends on it. So the questions pop fans need to ask themselves are manifold; are you one of the #Monsters or the #Barbz? Will you be joining team #Navy? If pushed, would you say your allegiance is to the #Beasties or the #Heartbeats? Whatever you do, please say you're not a #Crazycat ... It's all nonsense of course, but interesting nonsense, not least because it reveals a lot about the person coining the phrase. For Lady Gaga, calling her fans ""Monsters"" makes sense; her image is built on subverting perceived notions of beauty, and she promotes the idea of people displaying their flaws, being who they really are. It also helps that her fans are properly fanatical, latching on to this term and proudly defining themselves as such. Likewise, Nicki Minaj's exaggerated femininity is encapsulated by ""Barbz"", a term she says refers to ""women and gay boys"". Both are ridiculous, larger-than-life pop superstars who seem to live via an alter ego. Now, this doesn't work so well with Pixie Lott. Calling your fans ""Crazycats"" brings to mind a ""down with the kids"" mum trying to ingratiate herself with her teenage daughter: ""You guys were up until 11.45pm last night? You crazy cats!"" While Gaga drip-feeds exclusive information on new artwork, single premieres and things fans genuinely want to know, Lott uses the phrase ""stay crazy"" like an excitable children's TV presenter. For Rihanna and her ""Navy"", things have moved to the next level. Not only is there a designated @rihannanavy Twitter feed (""Introducing a new era of fandom"") but there's also a preposterous two-minute Navy recruitment video with text that reads: ""Her appearance infatuates us, her strength feeds us, her music created us - the Navy wants you."" It's simultaneously jaw-droppingly ridiculous and amazing. Just like wearing Grolsch bottle tops on your laces seemed a little silly once Bros had split up, and walking around Tesco with one sparkly glove didn't scream ""zeitgeist"" post-1984, it's not clear how long this trend will last or how it will evolve. Fingers crossed that once people reach a certain age they'll stop wanting to be defined as a ""Crazycat"", for both the sake of their mental health and musical taste. 