This week's new DVD &amp; Blu-ray
Rubber DVD & Blu-ray, Optimum, released 11 Apr Why? That's the question you should never ask at the movies. In Rubber's opening sequence, a cop addresses the camera with a speech about how all films contain events that happen for ""no reason"". So, here, when a discarded car tyre rolls to life and starts destroying objects and then creatures with its explosive mental powers, it's best to simply accept its supernatural abilities. And why not? A similar attitude should be taken towards the characters who come up against the killer tyre, not all of whom seem to be in on what's going on, as well towards the onlookers in the film, as they comment on events they see unfurl through binoculars. It's a heady mix in which sense and reason would only get in the way. Rubber is the second feature - after the equally off-kilter Steak - from director Quentin Dupieux, best known for his previous musical work as Mr Oizo (which achieved global recognition thanks to the Dupieux-directed Flat Eric video). It's unlikely this project will be welcomed into as many hearts, but while much of it seems to revel in wilful obscurity, it's by no means impenetrable. There's a broad message here about just how much of a ridiculous premise we will swallow; a killer tyre is certainly no more unbelievable than anything in Inception, Toy Story 3 or Black Swan. As with any film, if you're prepared to go along with it then you'll get the most out of it. Why not, indeed. The Man Who Fell To Earth Remastered release of Nicolas Roeg's sci-fi classic with David Bowie as an outerspace outsider taking over our business world to save his planet. Blu-ray, Optimum Somewhere Young Elle Fanning steals the scenes as the daughter of a Hollywood star bringing her father (Stephen Dorff) back to reality in Sophia Coppola's touching drama. DVD & Blu-ray, Universal George Clooney plays an assassin trying to make his last hit in Anton Corbijn's thriller. DVD & Blu-ray, Universal Will Ferrell voices the loser villain trying to right his wrongs in this smart animation. DVD & Blu-ray, DreamWorks 