CBS Conscripts Twittering Stars for #CBSTweetWeek
The network apparently hopes to turn Twitter buzz into ratings. Here's an idea that we're surprised has taken so song to implement: Stars have already been experimenting with live-tweeting during events - think James Franco at the Oscars, for instance. But so far as we know, CBS is the first network to organize a concerted ""tweet week."" From the 3rd to the 11th, stars of various CBS shows will be tweeting while their show airs. It's something like a DVD commentary of a show, but on Twitter, and in real-time. (Howard Stern did a version of this and created quite a buzz recently.) The hashtag in question is #CBSTweetWeek. Ever wonder what goes through Jeff Probst's head when he watches his solemn, campfire-lit face on a broadcast of ""Survivor""? Eager to hear the funny story about how crew members cracked up in hysterics when Donnie Wahlberg dunked a bad guy's head in a toilet on ""Blue Bloods""? Then follow @JeffProbst and @DonnieWahlberg, respectively, and pay attention to their accounts when the shows hit the air next week. Here, a brief taste of the Twitter stylings of a few other performers: @SimonHelberg (of ""The Big Bang Theory""), 31 March: ""So the further east you go in LA, the more guys begin to look like confederate soldiers. By Barstow, they are in full SS uniforms. #hipsters"" @PhilKeogan (of ""The Amazing Race""), 31 March: ""Riding @ the Velodrome #cycling is like de-fragmenting a hard drive, I feel optimized again after riding 105 inch gear for a few hours:)"" @danieldaekim (of ""Hawaii Five-O""), 23 March: """"Nice guys finish last."" True or false? Your thoughts please."" A glimpse of the full tweeps roster: Mediabistro has the full tweeting schedule, complete with relevant handles and hashtags; the roster also includes presenters at the Academy of Country Music Awards and analysts of the NCAA Division I men's basketball national championship game, among others. Follow Fast Company on Twitter. Email David Zax, the author of this post. Read More: Most Innovative Companies: Twitter 