Now enters the mighty Chewbacca!
This is it: the moment everyone's been waiting for! Ever since The Clone Wars series began 2 1/2 years ago, speculation has run rampant that at some point we'd see wookiees, and specifically the beloved Chewbacca, before they're ensnared by the Empire post Revenge of the Sith. ""Good relation with the Wookies, I have"", Yoda mentions to his fellow Jedi Council members in the aforementioned film, leading us to speculate where this connection hails from. After seeing The Clone Wars' latest and last episode of Season Three, ""Wookiee Hunt"", premiering tonight, it's safe to say we don't get to see this direct connection explored at this time, but the ending definitely sets up for that relationship down the line. Supervising Director Dave Filoni, and Director of this two-episode story arc, has said that new character models created for use in the show are never prepared for one-time use, due to the time and resources they require. This recent interview quip hints at future episodes involving the ""big walking carpet"", which may indeed go into that relationship, whose beginnings may've been broached here at the end of ""Wookiee Hunt""; it's in the final scene that we see Chewbacca standing on a landing pad with our contingent of heroes, including wise Council Master Yoda. Though there's no dialogue between them, yet there's a pervasive sense that a new alliance has just been forged with the Wookiees, who've protected and saved the Jedi Padawans; surely this act will not be forgotten, and may be the inroads to a special working interaction in Season 4 and beyond. In my review of ""Padawan Lost"" I said much about the incredible environments of Felucia and Wasskah, the lighting and animation implemented to bring its breathtaking beauty to life, and the sheer terror the Trandoshan hunters instill as they carry out their cinematic homage to The Most Dangerous Game (1932), which I'm happy to report carries on for this installment as well. I also went into the great characterization of one of the Padawans, Kalifa, and noted how I was looking forward to also being able to become better-acquainted with the two others, O-Mer and Jinx. We do indeed get a good deal of characterization concerning them both, but the real standout, as it should be, is in the animation quality and verisimilitude exhibited by Peter Mayhew's Chewbacca. It just goes to show the lengths that Filoni and crew are willing to go to in translating the zeal and energy from the live-action films into a medium that will better connect the two trilogies into the cohesive 13 hr. epic we know so well. Most would never even question that an actor in a big furry suit has a particular grace and style that's inconic and instantly-recognizable, yet you know it when you see it. The fact that The Clone Wars team brought Chewbacca actor Peter Mayhew into the studio for reference works so well, you'll be gasping at the sight of him in action, and instantly recognize that he truly is the one and only actor for the role. From his expressive eyes, to his real-life 7 ft. 3 in. lumbering stride, to the casual way he leans back into a relaxed pose, it's all Chewie. And with Mayhew's practiced Wookiee growl through the years at conventions, for the first time it's his voice helping to bring the zoo animal-sound mixture into the familiar and resonate growl we all know and love. Advertisement The action in this episode is indeed intense and engaging, and visually-pays off what fans have long heard of, yet never yet seen: Wookiees engaging in battle against the slithery Trandoshan slavers that would ensnare them. Having Ahsoka and the two remaining Padawans in the mix of the battle makes it that much more thrilling, and I would be remiss if I didn't mention the superb blending of iconic John Williams' Star Wars musical themes in all the right places; never overused, it is implemented by series' musical composer Kevin Kiner in just the right dosage to really get the gooseflesh standing up in all the right moments. In other words, Chewie's big return is all it's been hyped up to be, and if it's not already more than enough that we'll be seeing the survivor Darth Maul back in action down the road, one can now begin dreaming that a future Chewie appearance will be graced by his rescuer, a brash young Corellian pirate who turned mainstream audiences onto the sci-fantasy epic in the first place, with his cynical everyman point-of-entry into that world as Han Solo. As always, there are never any guarantees of that, but just my own speculation; but however George Lucas, Filoni, and crew forge ahead with Season 4, we can rest assured it's only going to be nothing short of continuing to be mind-blowing. Season 3 wraps up tonight with ""Padawan Lost"", followed by ""Wookie Hunt"" during a special 1-hour finale on Cartoon Network, beginning at 8 PM ET/PT. And as always, episodes can be purchased in iTunes, or watched streaming-for-free beginning Mon. Apr. 4on both starwars.com/clonewars and cartoonnetwork.com. If tonight's broadcast follows-suit with past seasons, we'll be graced with a 1 min. sneak peek at what lies five months ahead with the beginning of Season 4. If that happens, be sure I'll be writing a separate write-up analyzing it in vivid detail later tonight! 