""Mad Men"" Creator Says 7 Seasons Will Be Enough
Matthew Weiner, the creator of AMC’s “Mad Men,” now knows how his beloved show will end. Mr. Weiner, a notoriously secretive writer and producer, is not telling anyone, of course. But he is saying that the seventh season of “Mad Men” will be its last. “That’s how long the show is,” Mr. Weiner said matter-of-factly on Thursday night, shortly after the announcement of his new contract. That gives the writers of “Mad Men” three more seasons to extend Don Draper’s suffering — or, just maybe, to resolve it. The contract announcement confirmed that the fifth season of “Mad Men” would have its premiere in early 2012, roughly six months later than previous seasons have started. AMC also affirmed that it would broadcast the sixth season of the show. The deal includes an option for Mr. Weiner and Lionsgate to make a seventh season, and Mr. Weiner indicated that he intended to act on that option. “I’m just thrilled I get to finish it,” he said in an interview on Thursday night. Negotiations among Mr. Weiner, AMC and the studio that makes “Mad Men,” Lionsgate, became testy this week when he protested proposed cuts to the cast budget and the length of the episodes. Mr. Weiner said Thursday that no cast cuts were mandated, and that he would produce 47-minute versions of each episode that could be viewed online, even if AMC broadcasted versions that were two minutes shorter. Making “Mad Men” a seven-season story is not a done deal. It hinges on the cast contracts that Lionsgate will have to negotiate, particularly with Jon Hamm, who plays Don Draper. He is signed only through the sixth season, according to an executive with knowledge of the negotiations, who insisted on anonymity because AMC and Lionsgate declined to comment beyond their statements. As television series age, “it’s always about keeping the cast going,” the executive said. Talk about the ending of any acclaimed show is rife with prickly issues. Mr. Weiner said he had tried not to be “emotionally attached to its future” and had always assumed that each season of “Mad Men” could be its last. But the negotiations for a new contract in March forced him to contemplate how long he would want the show to go on. Having an end date in mind, he said, “means I get to determine what taste will be left in the audience’s mouth.” But he added, “I’m still going to take it a season at a time, and work my way up to that.” 