Jobless rate down to 8.8% as unemployment hits a two-year low, but labor participation still down
The nation's unemployment rate dropped in March to its lowest level in two years, brightening the economic outlook as major companies plan to add more jobs. More hiring cut the unemployment rate to 8.8% as employers added 216,000 jobs last month, the Labor Department said. Factories, retailers, the education and health care sectors, and professional and financial services all expanded their payrolls. Those gains offset layoffs by local governments, construction and telecommunications. The private sector added more than 200,000 jobs for a second straight month, the first time that's happened since 2006 - more than a year before the recession started. ""It's certainly indicative of continuing improvement in the labor market, with two months in a row of really solid private payrolls,"" said Stephen Stanley, chief economist at Pierpont Securities. ""It's not a blowout number, but all in all, it's a good report."" The improved outlook propelled the Dow to a 2011 high in early trading. Stocks then pared their gains as oil prices climbed to 30-month highs. The Dow closed up 57 points, or 0.46%, to 12,376.72. The new figures could mark a turning point in job creation. America's largest companies plan to step up hiring in the next six months, a March survey of CEOs found. Google, Siemens and Ford, among others, have said they plan to add workers. Economists expect the stronger hiring to endure throughout the year, producing a net gain of about 2.5 million jobs for 2011. Even so, that would make up for only a small portion of the 7.5 million jobs wiped out during the recession. The economy must average up to 300,000 new jobs a month to significantly lower unemployment. The unemployment rate has fallen a full percentage point since November, the sharpest four-month drop since 1983. Stepped-up hiring is the main reason. Still, the job gains haven't led many people who stopped looking for work during the recession to start again. The number of people who are either working or seeking a job remains surprisingly low for this stage of the recovery. Fewer than two-thirds of American adults are either working or looking for work - the lowest participation rate in 25 years. Just 64.2% of adults have a job or are looking for one - the lowest participation rate since 1984. The number has been shrinking for four years. It suggests many people remain discouraged about their job prospects even as hiring is picking up. People without jobs who aren't looking for one aren't counted as unemployed. Once they start looking again, they're classified as unemployed, and the unemployment rate can go back up. That can happen even if the economy is adding jobs. ""It is always possible that as the job market improves, people will start looking again and the unemployment rate could go up,"" said economist Bill Cheney of John Hancock Financial Services. ""But the normal pattern is once it starts coming down as rapidly as it has over the last few months, it keeps on going down."" 