U.S. economy adds 216,000 jobs in March
WASHINGTON - The most-awaited sign that the U.S. economic recovery is firmly taking root arrived yesterday in a Labor Department report that showed vigorous private-sector hiring as the unemployment rate fell for the fourth consecutive month. However, rising food and fuel prices remain threats to a strong economic revival, analysts warned. Employers added a robust 216,000 jobs in March, the Bureau of Labor Statistics reported, as the unemployment rate ticked down one-tenth of a percentage point to 8.8percent. Private-sector employment rose by 230,000, but a net loss of 14,000 government jobs nationwide dragged down the broader number. The figures add up to an economy firing on almost all cylinders. ""The job market is kicking into full gear. Job growth has accelerated to 200,000 per month, which is sufficient to meaningfully bring down unemployment,"" said Mark Zandi, the chief economist forecaster at Moody's Analytics. ""It is also encouraging the job growth is increasingly broad-based across industries. Only state and local governments are laying off workers."" Manufacturers added 17,000 jobs in March, the fifth straight month that they've boosted employment. The vigorous health-care sector added almost 37,000 jobs, and the category of professional and business services - which includes well-paying white-collar jobs - surged by 78,000. Temporary employment, usually a harbinger of future hiring, also was up by 28,800 jobs. Even if the March numbers are repeated in the months ahead, however, it will take a long time to erase the 8 million job losses suffered during the Great Recession of 2007-09, the worst since the 1930s. But March suggests the recovery is taking root. ""The numbers were solid, indicating that business confidence is improving to the point where hiring is beginning to step up,"" said Chris Varvares, the president of forecaster Macroeconomic Advisers. ""Numbers like this will generate income, increase confidence for consumers and are the kinds of numbers we need to see on an ongoing basis to have the self-sustaining recovery and expansion that is in our forecast."" Ohio's jobless rate was 9.2percent in February, the most-recent figure available, and the central Ohio rate for that month was 8.2 percent. The job increases in yesterday's national report and the projection for more new hiring reflect the trend in central Ohio, as well. Manpower's quarterly employment survey, released early last month, shows that 22 percent of Columbus-area employers interviewed plan to hire during the second quarter. The outlook was the fourth-best among U.S. metropolitan areas. Even though the national report arrived on April Fools' Day, yesterday's numbers were no prank. They followed by a day the close of the first quarter of 2011, when U.S. stocks surged on expectations that the U.S. economy is getting its game back. The benchmark S&P 500 gained 5.4 percent in the first three months of this year, the Dow Jones Industrial Average was up 6.7percent, its best quarter since 1999, and the tech-heavy Nasdaq composite rose 4.8percent. One shadow grew darker yesterday, as crude oil traded above $108 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange, threatening to slow the recovery. High oil prices bring pain at the gasoline pump, sapping consumer spirits and spending power. ""Higher energy and other commodity prices are the most serious threat to optimism regarding the job market and broader economy. Oil prices much above current prices for more than a few weeks will do serious damage,"" Zandi warned. Higher gasoline prices are like a tax on consumption. Shoppers might cut back their purchases of other goods if pump prices remain high. The AAA auto club said the nationwide average price for a gallon of unleaded gasoline stood at $3.61 yesterday, up from $3.38 a month ago and $2.80 a year ago. 