Line goes dead for Qwest as CenturyLink completes acquisition
CenturyLink completed its acquisition of Denver-based Qwest on Friday, a $24 billion merger that uproots a historic Colorado icon but places the business in the hands of a respected, traditional telephone operator. The deal creates an industry giant that employs 47,500 and serves 15 million phone and 5 million broadband subscribers in 37 states. It comes just more than a decade after the Joe Nacchio-led Qwest, then a fast-growing Internet network operator, acquired U S West and its 14-state local phone business for $45 billion. ""It was the end of an era when Qwest took over from U S West because Qwest was not a real telephone company. They were sort of a young, long-distance company,"" said telecommunications historian Herbert Hackenburg. ""This goes in the opposite direction. This merger brings them back to a telephone company that has a pretty good record."" Incorporated in 1968, Monroe, La.-based CenturyLink is a rural phone operator at its core. The company, formerly CenturyTel, exploded in size and ventured into urban markets with the purchase of Kansas-based Embarq in July 2009. Announced a year ago, the Qwest merger turns CenturyLink into the nation's No. 3 local phone company, behind AT&T and Verizon. CenturyLink paid about $12 billion in stock and assumed nearly $12 billion in Qwest debt. CenturyLink stock dropped 1 percent Friday to close at $41.03. Qwest stock ceased trading Thursday. Consumer bills and Qwest signs will switch to the CenturyLink brand over the next several months. Monroe will serve as the corporate headquarters. CenturyLink's acquisition binge comes as the nation's landline phone business is eroding. Millions of consumers dump wireline phone service annually, relying solely on cellphones or switching to Internet-based voice offerings from cable-TV companies. CenturyLink is banking that broadband and television service provided over an Internet network will help the company stem landline losses and even grow revenue. It also says synergies from the merger will save $625 million in annual operating and investment costs. The company is done purchasing phone lines for now, said chief executive Glen Post. ""We don't feel like we need to go out and look for additional wireline acquisitions at this point,"" Post said recently. ""We would like to expand in areas where we see ready growth potential in the months ahead."" Four Qwest board members — CEO Ed Mueller, Charles Biggs, Michael Roberts and James Unruh — will join the Century Link board. Denver will serve as one of CenturyLink's six regional headquarters and will be home to the company's enterprise-business division. The combined company employs about 7,500 in the state. But Qwest's corporate functions, such as accounting and human resources, are expected to face the brunt of merger-related job cuts. Layoff notifications have already started in Denver. ""Personnel decisions will continue to be made in a cascading process,"" a spokeswoman said Friday. Qwest's Colorado roots span more than a century. The state's first telephone exchange opened in 1879. U S West was spawned from the antitrust breakup of the old AT&T monopoly, or Ma Bell, in 1984. When Qwest acquired U S West in June 2000, the company quickly moved to switch out the high-profile U S West signs atop its 52-story headquarters building in downtown Denver with the Qwest name. Those signs will be taken down, with the naming rights expiring in June 2012 and Qwest's workforce in the building dwindling by more than half over the past year. Qwest and its predecessor companies have occupied the skyscraper at 1801 California St. since 1982. ""It's an astounding loss for Denver. Back in the Mountain Bell days, when Mountain Bell was a part of AT&T, every single major division of AT&T was located in Denver,"" said Hackenburg, founder of the Denver-based Telecommunications History Group. ""Slowly, all of those different things have disappeared."" Andy Vuong: 303-954-1209, avuong@denverpost.com or twitter.com/andyvuong Linking up with naming rights CenturyLink assumes these naming-rights deals from Qwest: • Qwest headquarters at 1801 California St. in Denver — naming rights included in lease agreement, which expires in June 2012. • Qwest Field (Seattle Seahawks' stadium) — reportedly $75 million for 15 years (10 years with five-year renewal option), signed in 2004. • Qwest Center Omaha (convention center in Omaha) — reportedly $14 million for 15 years, signed in 2003. • Qwest Arena (hockey, basketball, multipurpose arena in Boise, Idaho) — reportedly multiple years remaining, although terms are unavailable. Source: Denver Post research States' standing, in lines After buying Qwest Communications International Inc., Century Link Inc. provides landline phone service in 37 states, arranged here by number of lines: Colorado — 1,542,000 