High-profile drug prosecutor who took on Bruno Mars and Paris Hilton resigns after being caught ""buying crack cocaine""
The high profile Las Vegas drugs prosecutor who was arrested for allegedly buying crack cocaine has resigned. David Charles Schubert, 47, who prosecuted Paris Hilton after her arrest on cocaine charges last year, and most recently took on singer Bruno Mars, handed in his resignation yesterday after a ten years as a veteran prosecutor, two of which were spent as a liaison to a federal drug task force. But this all came crashing down when he was arrested on March 19 after Las Vegas police reported watching him - in a white BMW sedan - buy $40 worth of rock cocaine in a neighbourhood east of the Las Vegas Strip. Clark County District Attorney David Roger said he accepted David Schubert's resignation on Friday. Schubert is currently free pending a May 19 court date on felony conspiracy and cocaine possession charges. A telephone call to Schubert went unanswered. The street dealer Schubert allegedly bought the cocaine from claimed that the former prosecutor buys $40 of cocaine three or four times a week. A patrol officer stopped the deputy district attorney's BMW in Las Vegas when he spotted what he thought was a drugs transaction. According to an arrest report seen by TMZ, the officer watched Schubert pick up a black man from an apartment block, then drive to another address where he dropped him off. Schubert drove round for several minutes and then picked up the man again, police claim. The officer pulled the car over, but the suspected dealer jumped out and fled. Police gave chase and took him into custody. According to the arrest report, the man, named as Raymond Streeter, told officers he knew Schubert as ""Joe"". ""Joe"" had called him three or four times a week for the last six to seven months, Streeter claimed, given him $40 and driven him to an address to buy cocaine, the report alleges. Schubert was taken into custody and booked on cocaine possession charges. His two Las Vegas homes were searched and police took a blood sample, the Review-Journal reports. Mr Roger told 8 News Now: ""I just can't wrap my head around the idea that a prosecutor who knows the dangers of drugs would try crack cocaine."" According to the Review-Journal, investigators are also looking into whether he may have compromised any previous cases. The prosecutor has worked for Clark County district attorney's office since 2002. He leads a state drugs task force and has been assigned some of its most high-profile cases. Mr Roger told the newspaper: ""It's disheartening to know the individual who I assigned to prosecute high-level drug cases is allegedly using rock cocaine."" In February Schubert prosecuted the case against singer Bruno Mars - real name Peter Hernandez - who admitted to possessing cocaine in a plea deal. He was sentenced to a year of informal probation. And last year he prosecuted Paris Hilton, who pleaded guilty to misdemeanour charges after police found 0.8grams of cocaine in her handbag. Lawyer David Chesnoff, who represented both celebrities, told the Review-Journal he wouldn't speak badly of Schubert. He said: ""I'm a big believer in the Constitution. I believe everyone is innocent until proven guilty. And I always root for the underdog. ""I will say this: David's always been a real professional and always treated me with respect, so I wish him the best."" Schubert also prosecuted the case of Steven Zegrean, who was convicted for shooting four people at the New York-New York casino in 2007. His case has been assigned to the attorney general. If found guilty, he could face up to four years in a Nevada jail. 