State tests for radiation in Metro East
SPRINGFIELD, Ill. • Illinois' emergency management agency is testing for elevated radiation levels in the Metro East area, after finding trace materials elsewhere believed to be related to Japan's earthquake-damaged nuclear power reactors, officials confirmed Friday. They stressed that the radioactive materials found in grass clippings from upstate Will County and in Springfield air samples are in minuscule amounts, far below established safety levels. ""These levels are very low and present no hazard to people in Illinois,"" Jonathon Monken, director of the Illinois Emergency Management Agency, said in a statement. ""We will continue to track the deposition of radiation in Illinois to ensure there is no impact on public health and safety."" Agency spokeswoman Patti Thompson said officials are now testing grass in Madison and Clinton counties and milk from local cows in Clinton and Bond counties, with additional testing in West Chicago and the Springfield area. The Metro East counties were chosen because of their proximity to the agency's Springfield facilities and the fact that they're not near any of Illinois' six operational nuclear facilities. In Missouri, officials of the state's Department of Health and Senior Services regularly monitor air, water and local milk, at monitoring sites in St. Louis, Jefferson City and Springfield. ""We have not received any reports of elevated radiation,"" said department spokeswoman Jacqueline Lapine. At least 15 other U.S. states have found trace levels of radioactivity apparently resulting from releases half a world away, at Japan's Fukushima nuclear power reactors. The reactors were severely damaged in the magnitude 9.0 earthquake and resulting tsunami that hit Japan on March 11, sparking worldwide concern about radioactivity. Thompson describes the radioactive levels found so far in Illinois as being about 200,000 times lower than the regulatory limits set for nuclear power plants. ""It was almost impossible to detect,"" she said. The intent with continued testing ""is to let people know we're watching for it ... and to make sure we don't see levels later that are of concern."" Thompson said there is little doubt the readings are from the Japan disaster. ""This is a material that you really only find from a fission process, and this is the only thing we know of in the world with that kind of release."" The material in question has an eight-day ""half life,"" meaning it loses half its radioactivity in eight days, and in effect will be gone in seven weeks. 