Gunmen in south Philippines kidnap 16, set demands
MANILA, Philippines — Gunmen linked to a criminal gang have kidnapped 16 people, most of them teachers, from an elementary school graduation ceremony in a remote southern Philippine town, police said Saturday. The gunmen demanded freedom for their fellow tribesmen who were jailed following an almost identical hostage-taking in the same town in 2009 by suspects wanted for murder and abductions, said regional police chief Reynaldo Rafar. The assailants in the latest kidnapping are former government militiamen turned bandits who seized the hostages Friday at the graduation ceremony in Prosperidad town in the remote forests of southern Agusan del Sur province in the eastern part of Mindanao Island, Rafar said. The 14 adults include teachers and education department district officials, but there were also two children aged 10 and 13 in the group, according to Senior Inspector Joel Solon Mendez of the provincial police. Rafar said the gunmen immediately demanded the release of fellow Manobo tribesmen Ondo Perez and three others who are being held at the Agusan del Sur jail on charges of kidnapping and illegal possession of firearms in connection with the December 2009 hostage-taking, in which 47 villagers were held for several days. Police sharpshooters were deployed around the area where the hostages were held and negotiations were under way, Rafar said. The hostages were being kept in one or two houses near other houses owned by hostage takers’ relatives, said another police officer, Senior Supt. Nestor Fajura. Mendez said the estimated six gunmen holding the hostages had initially given a 24-hour deadline to release their four fellow tribesmen. But he said that as of Saturday morning, they appeared to have softened their position on the deadline and demanded that food and water be delivered to them. Government negotiators have in turn asked for the immediate release of the children. Fajura said as of Saturday afternoon none of the hostages had been released and the food had not been delivered because the gunmen made it a condition that detainee Perez be among those to bring it. ""The crisis management committee is now talking to Perez so he can ask the leader of the hostage takers who is his nephew not to include that condition,"" Fajura said, adding that it was impossible to quickly get a court order for Ondo’s release since it was a weekend. Food must have already been given to them, even if it may not be enough, he added. This latest hostage-taking took place seven months after a daylong kidnapping crisis in Manila ended in bloodshed. After a dismissed policeman took captive a busload of Hong Kong tourists to demand his job back, the Aug. 23 ordeal ended with police and the gunman opening fire, leaving eight hostages and the assailant dead and drawing international criticism to the police operation. ""I don’t think we need to say this anymore, but the safety of the hostages should be the priority,"" presidential spokeswoman Abigail Valte said on government radio Saturday. She said the local crisis management committee involving the mayor and town officials ""hopefully can handle this without anything untoward happening to the victims."" Police have said Perez and his men were former government militiamen who turned to banditry. They were accused of seizing the villagers in 2009 after two of Perez’s relatives escaped arrest in connection with the killing of four members of a rival clan. The 2009 hostages were freed several days later after intervention by Manobo tribal elders, and the gang leaders were arrested. © Copyright 2011 Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. 