Best friend leads cops to pot house
MURRIETA, Calif. — A police officer shot a vicious dog roaming a Southern California neighborhood, then followed the wounded animal to the owner’s marijuana growing and selling operation. The chase began when officers responding to a report of a loose pit bull found it attacking a leashed dog. An officer tried to control the aggressive dog and it tried to bite him. The officer shot the dog in the head and it ran to a nearby home, where the pot operation was discovered. Murrieta police investigators on Thursday arrested 25-year-old Justin Shaun Armstrong for investigation of cultivation and possession of marijuana for sale. He is in jail with bail set at $25,000. The wounded dog is being treated by a veterinarian. Police: Fake faxes freed hubby — twice MADRID — Spanish police say they have arrested a man who twice escaped from custody by having his wife send fake faxes ordering his release. Fifty-seven-year-old Jose Carlos Serna was taken into custody at his home in San Lorenzo del Escorial, a suburb north of Madrid, yesterday, while hiding in a hollowed-out sofa, police said. In December, he was in a cell at Arganda del Rey courthouse awaiting trial when officers got a fax purportedly from a regional court. It was followed by a phone call purportedly from a court official, corroborating the release order. Officers tried to verify the order, but their calls went unanswered. When a second call was received confirming Serna’s release, he was freed to a waiting taxi. Police said Serna used the same trick to escape from Valdemoro jail in October. Dead man’s vote stands in NY village election SYRACUSE, N.Y. — The election was decided by one vote, and both sides agree that a dead man voted. But a judge in New York says the man’s absentee ballot can stand because it wasn’t challenged before it was counted. Arnold Ferguson, the father of a candidate running for village of Manlius trustee, had submitted an absentee ballot but died three weeks before the March 15 election in central New York. His rival, Marc Baum, had challenged the vote. Election officials admit the vote shouldn’t have counted, but a state supreme court judge on Thursday ruled that any challenge had to happen before the ballot was removed from its envelope and counted. Baum, who lost the race by a single vote to Harold Hopkinson, says he’s through with politics for now. © Copyright 2011 Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. 