Music Stars in Public, Victims of Abuse at Home
Just yesterday Keith Brown, the father of well known piano group ""The 5 Browns,"" was finally given what he deserved after sexually abusing his three daughters for years when they were children. A judge in Utah issued Brown a sentence of ten years to life after deeming him a ""pedophile"" and a ""danger to society."" Despite Keith Brown being mentally sick and inflicting monstrous abuse on his own flesh and blood, his children are extremely talented and have received praise from listeners when featured on ""Oprah"" and when their albums reached the top of the classical music charts. The instance of a mentally perturbed father abusing his amazingly talented children is something that Detroit music fans, as well of the rest of the world, know all too well. Think legendary and groundbreaking group The Jackson Five who was one of Motown's most famous acts. Though they were not subjected to sexual abuse that the public is aware of, they were unfairly beaten and verbally abused for years by their father Joseph Jackson. Likewise, the lovable DeBarge family who grew up in Grand Rapids and Detroit, MI, reported accounts of verbal and physical abuse by their father. Etterlene DeBarge a.k.a Bunny, lead singer of the group DeBarge, even revealed that she was sexually abused by their father. Is there a correlation between child abuse and superstardom? Advertisement The reality is that child abuse is extremely prevalent in the U.S., however the public gets to learn what goes on behind the closed doors of groups like ""The 5 Browns"" and ""The Jackson Five"" simply because their privacy is little to nonexistent. The women of ""The 5 Browns"" committed a brave act by exposing their father's misconduct when they learned he would possibly be managing young acts. Victims of child abuse should be encouraged by this story to speak out. Detroit citizens should become aware of Childhelp Michigan in Southfield. This organization works to prevent child abuse and treat victims. Visit childhelp.org to volunteer or speak out against child abuse. 