Vegas call girl recalls run-in with Philip Markoff
A streetwise Las Vegas escort told the Herald yesterday she came face to face with accused Craigslist killer Philip Markoff before his Hub hotel crime spree, but likely saved her own life by slamming the door in his face. The rattled Sin City call girl said Markoff arrived at their rendezvous at a Waltham hotel in early 2009 claiming he was a cop, but she quickly spotted his phony badge and plastic zip ties. When an erotic masseuse was later murdered in Boston, she knew she dodged death. “It could have been me,” said Amber, whose last name is being withheld by the Herald. “I answered the door. I was fully dressed, of course. I greeted him, gave him a hug. He was kind of, like, weird. He was skinny, too. He didn’t act happy to see me,” she said. “I stepped back. I said, ‘Can I see your ID?’ He pulled out his ID, then he pulled out something that was supposed to look like a badge. I saw that he had those plastic handcuffs.” That’s when she quickly shut the door. “I was kind of like, wow. . . . Luckily, I got out unscathed,” she said. Markoff fled, and she called hotel security and changed rooms — but she never called the cops. Her telephone number is one of dozens Markoff, 24, dialed from prepaid TracFones, including the number of Julissa Brisman, 25, who was killed at the Marriott Copley Place on April 14, 2009, newly released law enforcement records show. A Herald review of Markoff’s records show the former Boston University medical student dialed dozens of phone numbers linked to online ads for escorts, strippers and other erotic services. Amber’s phone is among those listed, records show. Prosecutors said this week there’s no doubt Markoff was in the early stages of a serial killer rampage targeting ladies of the night in hotels from the Hub to Rhode Island. Markoff committed suicide in August while awaiting trial at the Nashua Street Jail. Amber said she was suspicious of a “cold” and “weird” Markoff because he said he was from out of town but provided a local phone number. She said she didn’t buy the cop story and refused to let him in her room. “He actually tried to rob me. . . . I said, ‘You’re not a (expletive) cop.’ I basically shot him down,” she said. “I’m 5 (feet), 9 (inches). I gave it back to him. He told me he was going to go downstairs and get a female cop to search me. . . . I was like, send her up. Send her up. I have nothing to hide. . . . He tried to push his way into my room.” Around the time she met Markoff, Amber said escorts were leaving warnings on message boards about a man claiming to be a cop who tied up women and robbed them in New York, Boston and Connecticut. “He was doing that for a long time. We knew of him for years. He started that when he was younger,” she said. “He was really confident in the fact that no one was going to tell on him. He was just so brazen, nobody actually reported anything until someone got killed.” Amber told the Herald the scores of escort calls Markoff made suggest he was “obsessed” with robbing working girls, who sometimes carry thousands of dollars when they travel. “I wouldn’t be surprised if he paid for medical school by robbing girls,” she said. “He was hooked. He probably had a whole lifestyle around robbing girls.” 