Chic in Review | Dear Lady Gaga &#8230;
All the fashion news of the week that’s fit to reprint. Abercrombie & Fitch Selling padded bikini tops for tweens. At last. Aldridge, Lily Will marry her fiancé, Caleb Followill, in May. Didn't want the speculation about Kate Middleton's wedding dress to overshadow her own. Ambrosio, Alessandra Appears on street cards advertising prostitution. We're guessing that this was not a campaign she agreed to participate in. Bendet, Stacey Was featured on Crain’s list of future business leaders under 40. What about the Olsens? Clinton, Hillary Revealed the contents of her handbag: chili flakes, autographed photos and mineral water spray. The tools to save the world. Colonial Williamsburg A historical researcher has compiled beauty tips from the time and created a hog's lard moisturizer. I think I'll stick to the 21st century. Crocs Donating 100,000 pairs of shoes to Japan. I never thought I would say this, but rock those Crocs. de la Fressange, Inès Is the latest brand ambassador for L'Oréal. Fifty and fabulous. Dolce & Gabbana The pair loves dressing Britney Spears. Would you hold it against them? Dunn, Jourdan Introducing a denim collection. The queen of street style needs to share her tips. Gaga, Lady Has a new job as a columnist at V Magazine. We hope it’s not an advice column. Gaultier, Jean Paul Will greet visitors to his coming retrospective - in the form of a talking doll. Gevinson, Tavi Already bored of fashion. Can I get a J-J-Jaded? Guess Thought Lady Gaga was at its Miami store, but it turned out she was an impostor. As if Gaga would shop at a mall. Herzigova, Eva Gave birth to a baby boy. Maybe he can be friends with Skyler Morrison Berman? Jacobs, Marc Coming out with a collection of cocktails, I mean body splashes: Ginger, Curaçao and Cranberry. Miller, Michele A Sacramento principal is selling off her entire 350-pair shoe collection to save teacher and staff jobs. For $1,000 a pair, they had better be solid gold Louboutins. Nike Releasing a pair of Cheech and Chong sneakers on April 20. Get it? Oprah Wants to give Donald Trump a makeover. Hopefully she can finally get through to him. Panties A man made a quilt entirely out of underwear. We hoped he at least washed them first. Perry, Katy Her evangelical mother is writing a book about how much she hates her daughter’s wardrobe. Cupcake bras don't convey holiness? Pitti Picked Rodarte and Band of Outsiders to be the next guest designers. Poly, Natasha Plans to get married next month in St. Tropez. Wedding dress designers never get a day off. Sander, Jil Her +J collection for Uniqlo just won the British Design Award. Sigerson Morrison Losing both Kari Sigerson and Miranda Morrison. Maybe they should change the name of the line to "" ."" Slater, Kelly The surfing champion is designing a line of sportswear. Gnarly, dude. Taylor, Elizabeth Christie's is auctioning off her collection of jewelry. Daphne Guinness gets her checkbook ready. Tweet Mirror A new device will allow you to ask your friends for online feedback while you are shopping. Frenemies rejoice. West, Kanye Has yet another design collaboration in the works, this time with Michael Amzalag and Mathias Augustyniak of M/M Paris. Bonne chance with that! 