Northampton Saints 53 Sale Sharks 24: match report
Read a full match report of the Aviva Premiership game between Northampton Saints and Sale Sharks at Franklin’s Gardens on Saturday, April 2 2011. Ben Foden kept out of trouble on his return to action after his scrape with the law last weekend as Northampton romped to an eight try victory at Franklin’s Gardens. England full-back Foden, who was arrested on suspicion of criminal damage in London last Monday, might have been hoping for a try by way of atonement. Instead he had to be content with a supporting role, helping create second-half tries for Bruce Reihana and Phil Dowson and making a couple of probing runs. Foden has accepted a police caution and the matter is now closed as far as Northampton director of rugby Jim Mallinder is concerned. “Ben has had an interesting week, but he’s responded magnificently,” he said. “In the first half he was probably trying too hard but in the second half he was magnificent, running strong and hard down the wing. “He’s apologised for what happened and accepted the police caution for his involvement in it and he’s moving on.” Northampton did not need tries from Foden because they were so dominant in the scrum - where Sale’s rookie props Lee Imiolek and Henry Thomas were taught a painful lesson - that they had sealed the bonus point by half-time. But it was only when Sale had hooker Neil Briggs sent off for a second yellow card that Northampton finally converted that superiority into points and a third consecutive league win. Having been sin-binned in the first-half for taking down a maul, Briggs was again in trouble with referee David Rose when he got involved in a fracas that followed Wame Lewaravu’s try. Sale were only five points adrift at that stage and the game was well poised. Having fought their way back into contention through some superb handling and the accurate kicking of Charlie Hodgson, Sale were unable to hold back the Saints tide and leaked 27 points when they were down to 14 men. To compound Sale’s misery, Wales scrum-half Dwayne Peel was carried off on a stretcher early on after he was knocked out. Peel failed to get up when a ruck broke up and play was delayed for ten minutes while he received treatment. His departure marked the start of a torrid six-minute period for Sale in which they conceded two tries and lost Briggs to the sin-bin. Chris Ashton scored his second try in as many games since returning from England duty after Paul Diggin had come off his wing and opened up the home defence. A penalty try from a collapsed scrum completed a quadruple whammy for Sale who showed their resilience by crafting a try for Marc Jones with some sublime handling and kicking. A try from Brian Mujati, after Myler had again kicked to the corner, gave Saints their bonus point after 38 minutes, but the game appeared to be in the balance once more when Sale handled confidently and put Lewaravu in at the corner. Delight soon turned to despair for Sale when Briggs was dismissed and their challenge soon faded. England flanker Tom Wood picked up and drove over for his first try for Northampton, a second penalty try was awarded when Sale illegally repelled another forward surge and Reihana scored with his first touch after Foden gave a sublime pass. There was still time for Foden to wriggle free and set up Dowson for the try that took Northampton over the half century. Match details: Northampton: B Foden; C Ashton, J Clarke, J Downey, P Diggin (B Reihana 69); S Myler (S Geraghty 62), L Dickson (S Commins 63); S Tonga’uiha (A Waller 62), D Hartley (captain (B Sharman 62)), B Mujati (T Mercey 58), C Lawes, C Day (M Sorenson 62), C Clark (P Dowson 52), T Wood, R Wilson. Sale: N Macleod; B Cohen, C Bell, K Tonetti (I Thornely 73), M Cueto (captain); C Hodgson (R Miller 71), D Peel (W Cliff 13); L Imiolek A Croall 61), N Briggs, H Thomas (J Forster 61), C Jones, W Lewaravu (N Rouse 71), J Gaskell (M Jones 19-29), D Seymour (Jones 50), S Koyamaibole (N McMillan 61). Referee: Mr D Rose (Plymouth) 