Denise Van Outen steps out in odd outfit days after flaunting her amazing post-baby bikini body
Denise Van Outen made others green with envy last week when pictures emerged of her amazing post-baby bikini body on the beach in Dubai. But Denise Van Outen took a few steps back in the ""Yummy Mummy"" stakes today when she stepped out in London wearing a very odd and unflattering outfit. The matchy-matchy ensemble fell short of the chic look the 36-year-old was going for. Denise wore a pair of high-waisted trousers that were cropped above the ankle and had a loud black and white print. While the cropped length could have shown off her ankles, the mother-of-one instead chose to wear a pair of peep-toe booties, which gave the illusion of stumpy legs. She then added a matching white blazer and black and white pussycat bow blouse and a black handbag. The odd look was a far cry from the pictures of Denise lapping up the sunshine at Le Royal Meriden hotel in Dubai last week. Wearing a skimpy paisley-print bikini, Denise, who gave birth to daughter Betsey last May, looked tanned and trim as she strolled on the waterfront and luxuriated on a yacht. The TV presenter had said in the past that she was in no rush to lose her pregnancy weight, but her patience has clearly paid off. Miss Van Outen has admitted that she had healthy meals delivered to her door following the birth of her daughter Betsy last May. She described the regime she followed, called Pure Package, as ‘a life-saver for tired new mums’. The entertainer, who is married to actor Lee Mead, 29, also hired a personal trainer, and said her role as Paulette in the West End musical Legally Blonde is equivalent to ‘a gym workout, seven times a week’. While pregnant, she insisted she was going to ‘take time’ getting back into shape, adding: ‘Not everyone springs back into pre-pregnancy shape like Gisele Bundchen. ‘With someone like Gisele, you just have to accept that she’s blessed with amazing genes... I’m not in any rush.’ 