Plus size fashion: Size 18 clothes CAN look stylish
If you've ever tried to tug a poorly fitting pair of size 16 jeans over your hips in a changing room before collapsing in a dejected heap on the floor, you are not alone. One in four British women is now wearing a size 18 or above. But as Radio 4 presenter Jenni Murray admitted in this paper last week, it is almost impossible to find clothes that are both big and beautiful. So is hiding away in shapeless sacks the only solution? It most certainly is not. As a fashion stylist who has dressed celebrities of all shapes and sizes, I've discovered that every - and I mean every - woman can look good. If you know where to look, there are some fantastic companies, both on the High Street and on the internet, that have finally woken up to the fact that curvier women don't just want to crawl away and hide. My number one rule is to ditch the hard-wired belief that plus-size means frumpy. Brave the High Street and (politely, of course) demand to be noticed. There are plenty of chains that go up to your size, from Marks & Spencer and Evans to Debenhams, New Look and Monsoon. If you can't face the tyranny of badly lit dressing rooms, there are countless online stores that you can peruse from the comfort of your living room. Simply Be, Marisota, Duo, Anna Scholz, Beige Plus and Ann Harvey are a few of the best - and even trendy boutique ASOS.com has launched a fashion-forward plus-size label, ASOS Curve. So here's my pick of what's on offer, as worn by our gorgeous model Nina (bust 36DD, waist 36in, hips 46in). Enlarge Highlight your body as you would your face. Put the darkest colour on your heaviest area, or use colour to create a slim panel down the centre of your outfit. This can be done with a dark cardigan over a lighter shift dress - but this flattering frock does the work for you. Camel and black dress £60, Star by Julien MacDonald at Debenhams; jacket £40, Dorothy Perkins; ring stack £7.50, Daisy & Eve at Evans; shoes £105, duoboots.com Enlarge You can wear stripes, capes and slim-fitting trousers - it's just about wearing them well. All stripes work, whatever your dress size, if they're broken up with layering. Team them with darker trousers and try a cardigan on top. Or wear under a fun and playful cape like this one, which hides larger hips. Cape £70 and jeans £30, both Asos Curve; striped top £8.99, New Look; necklace £125, Bulatti.co.uk; sunglasses £123, Miu Miu at David Clulow; shoes £120, Ted Baker; bag £60, vivaladiva.com Enlarge This season's catwalk featured a lot of print - and there's no reason for plus-size girls to be left out. Prints are a nifty way to disguise lumps and bumps. Tall girls can pull off large, bold prints, but something subtler like this suits everyone. Break up the print with jackets or cardigans in plain colours. China print long dress £75, Evans Collection at Evans; white shrug £19.50, Evans; necklace £10, Daisy & Eve at Evans; sandals £19.99, New Look Enlarge Do you have slim legs, but worry about your hips and thighs? You can still do fitted trousers like these combats - simply layer longer pieces over the top to disguise problem areas. This lightweight parka is thin enough to wear in summer and completes the combat look. Parka £42, simplybe.co.uk; trousers £28, Indigo Collection at Marks & Spencer; yellow sleeveless shirt £19.99, New Look; belt £6, Dorothy Perkins; scarf £89, Epice at Fenwick; earrings £6.50 (part of a multipack), Daisy & Eve at Evans; ring £69, Lola Rose; shoe boots £120, duoboots.com Enlarge GET OUT OF THE LEGGINGS RUT: Harem pants are a super-comfortable alternative to leggings. You have to be fearless to wear them as there will still be volume around your hips and bum - that's part of the silhouette. But if you keep the top half short, you'll emphasise your waist. If you're concerned about the jersey fabric revealing wobbly bits, wear control tights to smooth them out. White jacket £139, Anna Scholz; blush lace top £39.50, Limited Collection at Marks & Spencer; trousers £50, Monsoon; necklace £118, Lola Rose; earrings (part of a multipack) £6.50, Daisy & Eve at Evans; shoes £120, duoboots.com Enlarge This is a fantastic shape if you've got a big bum, and it's everywhere at the moment thanks to Mad Men. This dress has a lovely V-shape neckline which helps slim a big bust, and volume in the skirt to skim over your hips and thighs. With a dress this perfect, you can get away with a daring pattern like these thick stripes on the bottom half. Red dress £59, Per Una at Marks & Spencer; cardigan £48, Monsoon; shoes £89.95, modainelle.com THE BASICS... TROUSERS: Should be higher-waisted, ideally with a smooth front and the zip at the side. SLEEVES: Are either elbow or three-quarter length — keep your eye out for cover-ups to wear over strappy tops or dresses. Avoid cap sleeves as these cut your arm at the widest point. NECKLINES: Are more flattering when lower, but you can cover up with a jersey camisole (£5 up to size 24 at Marks & Spencer). SKIRTS: Should sit smoothly across the front. A kick-out at the knee will give a balancing effect. DRESSES: Should have a back zip, not a side one. Diagonal ruching across the body is always slimming. AND DON'T FORGET... ACCESSORIES: Go for big, bold pieces. Daisy & Eve at Evans do an excellent range, with bangles and rings in all sizes. Lola Rose (lolarose.com) has a great range of stretch bangles. Use long necklaces (adele-marie.com has a good selection) and scarves to draw the eye down your body. SHOES: Evans has a great in-store range of wide-fitting shoes (up to size 11) and Duo (duoboots.com) has boot styles in calf widths up to 50cm and an amazing selection of footwear in three width fittings up to size nine. GOOD UNDERWEAR: This is essential in order to achieve the smoothest, sleekest shape you can. Simply Be (simplybe.co.uk) stocks Gok Wan’s excellent shapewear and a good selection of large bras that look feminine. Pictures: Joel Anderson. Model: Nina Hartley/excel. Hair and make-up: Katie Reedman 