Stylish rainwear for the whole family - The Early Show
Expert hosts fashion show with great looks for moms, dad, kids - even pets! (CBS News) April showers may bring May flowers - but you still want to stay dry if you're caught in one. And you can look good while you're at it, as ""Early Show"" style contributor Katrina Szish proved Friday. She hosted a fashion show, with models wearing attractive rainwear for the entire family - moms, dads, kids - even pets! Szish says rain gear doesn't have to be boring - a case of limited options, same-old same-old. ""Your outfit doesn't have to mimic weather,"" she says, ""And your rain gear can still boost your mood with colors, patterns , etc. - and there are lots of new options ."" The models she used to demonstrate that; Maggie and Brady: Maggie Right on trend with this military-inspired, water resistant treated nylon jacket. You don't have to sacrifice style. Paired with great cross body nylon bag that comes with an umbrella... a convenient go-to rainy day bag that will protect its contents Even your rain boots can still have an edge... studded rocker inspired boot is perfect for cool college student. Hurley Combat Winchester YC Slicker Jacket, $69, www.zappos.com Tyler Rodan Boeing Crossbody Bag, $55, www.zappos.com Hunter Black Festival 2010 Boots, $180, www.zappos.com Brady Brady just turned 4 years old Rainy days don't get kids down as much as grownups... they love to splash in the puddles... so we're keeping it fun and pattered Let kids be kids... they can get away with patterns and something cute Almost like they're wearing a toy or getting to play dress-up a bit... so they'll look forward to wearing this Love the lining... it's super soft terry cloth... almost like being wrapped in a towel inside jacket Hatley Kids Game Fish Raincoat $49, www.zappos.com Hatley Kids Robots Raincoat $49, www.zappos.com Western Chief Yellow/Red Kids Firechief Rainboots, $27, www.zappos.com Raincoats, Szish says, don't need to be made our of plastic to keep you dry. ""Today is all about nice, natural, breathable fabrics ,"" she says, ""and they don't have to be dull and dreary colors. They can still be bright and fun, like with Blair."" The models: Blair and - Rocky - a pooch! Blair Bright cheery red color Treated cotton so it still protects you from the elements but looks like a classic clean duffle coat Complete with toggle closures Boots are a contrasting color with little heel and fun bow detail Umbrella is graphic pattern that adds to the whimsy of all the fun details Boden Poppy Red Rainyday Duffle, $148.00 $148, www.bodenusa.com Kate Spade Umbrella, $75, www.zappos.com Kate Spade Black and Red Shiny Randi Boots, $125, www.zappos.com Rocky No one wants a soggy doggy Reversible coat for two color options if you want to coordinate with the dog in your life Rockport Yellow and Red Reversible Raincoat, $55, www.trixieandpeanut.com Rocky is a five-year-old hound mix. He is available for adoption through Animal Care & Control of NYC. With all the new materials and styles - what about classics ?! Model: Jackie Jackie Classic trench coat is always an appropriate option This season we are seeing a lot of re-interpretations of the trench... different colors or shapes We've got the classics re-interpreted on Jackie This is a modified trench inspired cape... Channeling Audrey Hepburn or Jackie O Very classic and elegant She also has my two favorite accessories both by Hunter... the maker of classic wellies... but they recently introduced these waterproof ballet flats and tote bags Bottom line, the classic trench is always a safe go-to for men or women Zara Stone Studio Gaberdine Cape, $129, Zara stores nationwide Hunter Coral Short Original Rubber Tote, $175, www.bloomingdales.com Hunter Sand Turks Rubber Ballerina Flats, $95, www.bloomingdales.com For men, are there other fashionable or classic options other than the trench ?! ""There are many casual, sporty, inspired looks for men today<"" Szish says, ""but also still sophisticated and not messy or sloppy."" Brant Classic trench is always an options, but why not try something a bit more current? Treated cotton... so it's water resistant but also breaths Lands' End Canvas True Navy Men's Rain Parka, $90, www.landsendcanvas.com Lands' End Canvas True Navy Nautical Button Shoulder Sweater, $30, www.landsendcanvas.com Lands' End Canvas Khaki Slim Fit Chinos, $40, www.landsendcanvas.com Hunter Bormio Rubber Combat Boot, $150, www.neimanmarcus.com Amy Amy is 6 years old ""60s-inspired floral raincoat Even with all the April showers... we've still got the promise of May flowers on Amy's waterproof patterned jacket London Fog Flower Patent Raincoat, $60, www.macys.com Mini Boden Buttercup Daisy Dress, $44, www.bodenusa.com Tretorn Kids Pink and Navy Jolly Boots, $40, www.zappos.com 