Dita Von Teese ditches sex siren wears for shapeless retro dress and flat heels
We are used to seeing the Burlesque star evoking 1950""s glamour in tight corsets, seductive dresses and high heels - but even Dita Von Teese has her dressed down days. The Queen of Burlesque was looking far from her glamorous stage self as she popped to the shops L.A. with her boyfriend. The 38-year-old performer and model was cruising around in a burgundy 1946 Super Deluxe Ford coupe and was clearly enjoying a relaxed day in an outfit that was less sexy seductress and more washerwoman. Dita soaked up the sunshine with the roof of her car down with her boyfriend French model and aristocrat Louis Marie De Castelbajac. The model kept her creamy skin undercover shielded with a headscarf in-keeping with the retro scene. But while we are used to seeing Dita in highly provocative outfits she opted for a much more understated look as she popped to the shops with her man. Dita had donned a midi-length black dress with multi-colored flowers and plants print and as usual was sporting her signature bright red lipstick. Louis-Marie, 27, also fitted in with the casual retro look in a plain white T-shirt, a pair of brown trousers and blue and brown brogues. The pair have been dating since April 2009 and Louis-Marie comes from one of the oldest and most prestigious families in France which dates back over 1000 years. His mother is an American writer and his father, Jean-Charles de Castelbajac, is a world famous fashion designer. As well as visiting Alberton’s to pick up some supplies the pair also cruised through Griffith Observatory in L.A. – where on bemused fan spotted the star. The burlesque dancer confirmed her location on Twitter and posted to the fan: ‘that's where I take my vintage cars out for a cruise!’ Dita glammed up for the Vivienne Westwood store opening party in L.A. on Wednesday night and oozed timeless style in her black taffeta gown. The Burlesque performer teamed the Vivienne Westwood dress with a pair of gloves, her signature bright red lips and a feathered fascinator. Do you have a story about a celebrity? Call the Daily Mail showbusiness desk on 0207 938 6364 or 0207 938 6683. For U.S. stories, phone 310 642 2317. 