Silk shirts prove immune to recession as sales soar
It may not be edgy, but shops are having to restock the wardrobe staple to keep pace with demand Its design is neither edgy nor new, but one item of clothing is proving immune to the economic fallout. The silk shirt has conquered every kind of wardrobe, and now retailers are urgently restocking to keep up with demand. ""It is a huge trend,"" said Jane Shepherdson, chief executive of Whistles. ""Sales are up 200% for us, and it's massive for all retailers at the moment."" At mywardrobe.com, buying teams are also reporting phenomenal sales and have reacted by drastically increasing their orders. Such hasty recalibration of stock levels reveals that, while industry watchers had anticipated the trend, which started last autumn, the success of the silk shirt has gone way beyond expectations. Ruth Chapman, owner of Matches, a small chain of luxury boutiques, said she had noticed a correlation between the recession and the silk shirt's success. ""We have found that the current economy really focuses the mind of our customers. They are spending, but they are looking for the best possible design and fabrics and something that will stand the test of time. A silk blouse offers all these things. We cannot keep them on the floor at the moment and having just finished the buy for next autumn, they are not going away."" On Friday in central London the silk shirt was everywhere. Indeed Erin Gunn, a 24-year-old sales adviser, was wearing two. ""Both are by Acne: the one on top was £125 from the Outlet and the one underneath was £180. I love how comfy and airy they are while still being smart."" Namha Sekhri, a student, also admitted owning several. ""I have about five or six. I love them because they're elegant and feminine, and can be the centrepiece of your outfit,"" she said. Unlike some of the more niche trends that the fashion industry often promotes, silk shirts have a broad demographic appeal. ""It's across the board,"" Shepherdson said. ""Women in their early 20s are wearing them buttoned right up to the neck, while women in their 50s have a few buttons open and wear a piece of jewellery with it."" Last year's relaunch of the Equipment label, a brand started in the 1980s by Christian Restoin - partner of the ex-editor of French Vogue, Carine Roitfeld - helped kickstart the trend. The label's signature silk blouses with two front pockets, which cost over £200, are seen as the pinnacle of the look, while cult brand Hamilton-Paris's collection revolves around the silk shirt. And yet when incomes are squeezed, Shepherdson said: ""They can be all things to all people; they go with everything, either at work or an evening event, so they represent great value."" Silk shirt devotee Bridget Cass, a 58-year-old charity worker, yesterday confirmed the longevity of this trend - and its potential pitfalls. ""I inherited this shirt from my mother, who inherited it from my grandmother. I have four or five in this style and they are incredibly easy to wear. I do hate that they crease and stain so easily, though."" 