How Royal bridesmaid Pippa Middleton kissed goodbye to all the secrecy over her dress designer
Kate Middleton may be keeping her wedding dress creator a closely-guarded secret…but her sister Pippa seems to have no such qualms. Pippa, 27, who will be Kate’s head bridesmaid, spent three hours locked in designer Alice Temperley’s West London showroom this week. Mother Carole, 56, was on hand, helping to fuel speculation that award-winning Ms Temperley, 36, may design Kate’s dress too. Pippa arrived in her BMW Z4 just minutes ahead of Carole on Thursday afternoon and made no attempt at subterfuge. The Middletons were greeted on the cobbles outside the shop by Ms Temperley, who kissed them on both cheeks. ‘Pippa was in high spirits and very smiley,’ said an onlooker. ‘She was carrying what seemed to be a shoe bag, so possibly any gown being designed isn’t for Kate but a bridesmaid dress for Pippa.’ But Kate, 29, is a fan of trendy Ms Temperley and wore a black and white dress by the designer for her first official engagement with William in December when they attended a charity carol concert in Norfolk. ‘Kate loves Alice’s collections, especially the simplicity of the designs,’ said a source. Ms Temperley has been tipped as Kate’s dress designer, along with Princess Diana’s favourite Bruce Oldfield. But yesterday Ms Temperley’s spokesman said she was unaware that she had been asked to make a dress for Kate or any of her bridal entourage. ‘Not that I know of. It’s nothing I can comment on,’ she said. Buckingham Palace said of Pippa’s fitting with Ms Temperley: ‘It was a private meeting between two individuals.’ Kate is understood to have commissioned two dresses for her big day on April 29. She will change from her Westminster Abbey gown into a second dress for the evening reception Prince Charles is hosting at Buckingham Palace. A friend said: ‘She is loving the fact no one knows who she will wear. Close friends don’t know.’ Sources believe Brazilian Daniella Issa Helayel, whose dress Kate wore when she and William announced the engagement, has not been asked to create anything for the wedding day.’ Bruce Oldfield, 60, refused to comment on whether he was designing Kate’s dress after Pippa and Carole were pictured shopping at his West London shop. But it is widely believed that he is designing an outfit for Carole. Meanwhile, The Mail on Sunday can reveal Kate will have six hairdressers on her big day. Richard Ward and James Pryce, who has been cutting the family’s hair for years, will be joined by four senior stylists at the Goring Hotel in Belgravia. ‘Kate had a practise with a hairdresser on Friday and she’s very happy with how everything is going,’ said a friend. 