Diane Gives a Party
SHANGHAI — Last December, the American fashion designer Diane Von Furstenberg promised to give an outrageous Red Ball in China this year, just ahead of her retrospective art and fashion show, ""Journey of a Dress,"" which opens this Saturday at Pace Gallery in Beijing. That much-anticipated evening gala took place here on Thursday evening, with a black-tie affair that was attended by more than 600 guests, including artists, business tycoons, fashionistas and movie stars – from East and West. Wendi Murdoch was there, talking about her new film, set partly in Shanghai, ""Snow Flower and the Secret Fan."" Jessica Alba flew in from Hollywood. China's own movie and fashion stars, Zhang Ziyi and Du Juan, were also on hand, as was the Academy Award-winning composer Tan Dun and Pearl Lam, Shanghai's most famous art and design connoisseur. Barry Diller, the American business tycoon and Ms. Von Furstenberg's husband, was seen in the company of Chinese business tycoons, while Charlie Rose, interviewer of the powerful and interesting, milled around close by. The gala was unusual because it was held on the grounds on an old pipe factory outside of Shanghai. The massive complex is now the studio of one of China's wealthiest and most celebrated artists, Zhang Huan. For one night, Mr. Zhang's studio — one of the world's largest — was draped in red curtains, bamboo scaffolding and battery operated LED lights, creating a sumptuous, glittering and even bizarre set of stages and evening lounges. Hundreds of red paper bags lighted by candles created a red-carpet effect near the entrance. Chinese lanterns had Ms. Von Furstenberg's iconic design prints. And red jars were arranged on the grounds in the shape of the DVF logo. Organizers said the gala was largely the work of the French fashion and furniture designer Alexandre de Betak. Mr. de Betak used brick, bamboo, paper lanterns and even an authentic Ming Dynasty temple (once used for the set of an opera Zhang Huan directed) to serve as the set for a riveting dance performance arranged for the gala by the Chinese dancer and choreographer Jin Xing. Mr. Zhang, the artist, made his own contributions. He placed two of his massive Buddha-shaped sculptures at opposite sides of the main factory floor. And for much of the night, as the guests walked around, 100 young men dressed in black costumes and wearing masks waved laser lights to create a light-show effect. ""I had to train the guys to use those lasers,"" Mr. de Betak said after the show. ""It was all absurd in a way. But that's what we wanted."" 