The Insider | Athena Calderone
The Insider is a recurring profile of emerging tastemakers in the fields of fashion, design, food, travel and the arts. It's rare to find in one person a great sense of style in everything - that perfect punch of fashion, design, music, travel, food and art - but Athena Calderone comes close. The former model and actress co-founded Rawlin Designs, a New York-based architecture and interior design company. (Her husband is the music producer and D.J. Victor Calderone, who has collaborated with the likes of Madonna and Sting.) When she's not mingling with the optimum optimorum of the fashion industry - she debuted in Vogue at the age of 23, when Dolce & Gabbana designed her wedding dress - Calderone is probably renovating some chic space like the Thakoon offices or flying off to Art Basel. Age: 35 Occupation: Interior designer Odd jobs: I’m currently eager to learn more about the art world. I'm a very, very new and slightly obsessed collector: I recently purchased a large-scale photograph from Huma Bhabha, a hand-colored etching from Volker Hueller and numerous drawings from William O'Brien. Heritage: Italian-American Languages: I wish! I've tried to learn Italian. Current city: Dumbo, Brooklyn Home away from home: Amagansett, N.Y. Daily uniform: Usually black jeans, beat-up Dries Van Noten booties - or platform Proenza booties - a tee, usually the Row, and Rick Owens leather jacket or my shrunken vintage jean jacket Fashion Designers: Suno, Proenza Schouler, Erdem, Isabel Marant, Rag & Bone, Phillip Lim 3.1, Alexander Wang, the Reformation Best online shopping sites: Opening Ceremony, Remodelista and Factory 20 for design inspiration. I'm really enjoying Nowness, which a friend recently turned me on to. For visual eye candy: Convoy. Museum: New Museum, MoMA, Brooklyn Museum In your refrigerator right now: I love cooking with fresh herbs, so I'm using lots of them. Organic half-and-half for my very necessary morning cup of Jack’s coffee. Fruits, Wallaby Organic Yogurt and coconut water. Reading material: Poetry by Mary Oliver, “A Tree Grows in Brooklyn” by Betty Smith and the Harry Potter series with my son. I'm always visually inspired by the pages of Spanish Architectural Digest magazine. Snack on the run: Tamari almonds & kettle corn popcorn Furniture piece: Anything BDDW, lighting by Serge Mouille and by Workstead. Industrial & Belgium antiques and obscure found objects at flea markets or eBay - picked up an amazing pair of Louis XIV armchairs at the Brooklyn Flea! Running music: Oh Land, the Kills, Florence and The Machine, the Black Keys, Empire of the Sun, Ting Tings, Lykke Li and the Xx Vintage store: Factory 20 and Melet Merchantile Eco-friendly product: Whole-house water filtration system and composting at the beach. Athena Calderone's New York View Insider Athena Calderone in a larger map 1. The Fat Radish (17 Orchard Street). The yummiest seasonal menu with a beautiful crowd, amazing lighting and design. They have a teeny, tiny chef’s table downstairs. 2. Ms Lily’s (132 West Houston Street). Serge Becker’s new Jamaican restaurant. I love going to my friend's restaurants because it's important to support one another. Super chill vibe and spectacular music - a place you just want to be with a group of friends. 3. Indochine (430 Lafayette Street). I used to work at Indochine when I first moved to NYC, and I actually went into labor there on Valentine’s Day! Jean Marc is one of best friends and my partner in crime. The food is consistently delicious, the atmosphere is always spot on, and it's the go-to place for the fashion and art crowd. They usually host some of the best Fashion Week events! 4. Hotel Delmano (82 Berry Street, Brooklyn) in Williamsburg for drinks. I love this place! They take their drink making seriously! The decor and design is incredible, and the treatment to the walls and ceiling is so beautiful - the first time I went there, I felt like I was in a dream. 5. Jin Soon (56 East Fourth Street) for the absolute best mani/pedi! They are unbelievably meticulous and make you feel pampered in every way! 6. Darr (369 Atlantic Avenue). The perfect collection of oddities - furniture, drawings, lighting, industrial antiques, taxidermy, books, vintage glasswear and eclectic trinkets you can’t find anywhere else. Huge inspiration and curated so brilliantly! They have another location at 101 Metropolitan Avenue. 