Milla Jovovich steps out in unflattering high-waisted jeans
Most supermodels could leave the house wearing a hessian sack and look fabulous. But there is one trend that even the most svelte of figures can't seem to pull off - high-waisted jeans. Milla Jovovich, usually a knockout, made the misstep today when she was spotted in a pair of the offending trousers, which did nothing for her gorgeous figure. The 35-year-old stepped out in a light blue denim shade which made her look a lot larger than usual, paired with a cream fur coat and extravagant necklace. The unflattering outfit was the second sartorial slip-up in as many days for the star, who suffered an embarrassing wardrobe malfunction the night before. Milla accidentally exposed one of her nipples when she attended former Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev's 80th birthday gala at the Royal Albert Hall last night. If a supermodel finds the high-waisted jeans trend tricky to pull off, there's not much hope for the rest of us. Despite the unflattering cut - universally hated by men - the style has remained on trend for another season. Amy Adams is another celebrity fan and was spotted in the trend last week in Los Angeles. And despite not being a model, the actress managed to pull of the look with a little more success than Milla. Amy's Seventies-style jeans were a darker shade and had pockets on the front, which helped to elongate her silhouette. Amy, 36, has regained her slender frame almost a year after the birth of her first child, daughter Aviana. The high-waisted jeans clung in all the right places on the Oscar-nominated actress, who had teamed the denim with a red scoop-neck T-shirt. Also spotted sporting the Seventies look recently was model Bree Henley, but she went the whole hog in full on hippy-chick mode as she teamed the jeans with a gold sequinned jacket. Again, the light-coloured denim was a bit of a fashion fail for even Bree' slight figure, making her look far larger than usual. Do you have a story about a celebrity? Call the Daily Mail showbusiness desk on 0207 938 6364 or 0207 938 6683. For U.S. stories, phone 310 642 2317. 