Weekend Shopping Bargains: Check Out These Great Deals and Coupon Codes
Big Discounts on Clothing, Jewelry, Shoes, and Toys for ""GMA"" Viewers April is here and ""Good Morning America's"" series ""Where the Weekend Sales Are,"" has great deals for the first weekend of the month. Check out these great bargains on clothes, jewelry and shoes available only to ""GMA"" viewers. Refinestyle : Nanette Lepore Dress Refinestyle.com puts consignment sales at your fingertips. It's an online marketplace for what it calls ""pre-loved"" designer fashions and accesories at prices 70 percent to 90 percent off. Today and Saturday only, a Nanette Lepore cocktail dress originally priced at $332 and already discounted at $80 will be available to ""GMA"" viewers for only $40. Also, a Fendi bag that retails for $795 is on sale for just $90. Refinestyle.com also is offering ""GMA"" viewers exclusive half-price deals on 1,000 sale items. All of the items will be tagged with an exclusive ""GMA"" button, and you can access all the deals by clicking on ""Good Morning America Exclusive Sale."" Tell me what you'd love to see featured in a future weekend deals segment and I'll hustle to hunt it down for you. Talk to me on Twitter or Facebook. Piperlime: Half-Off Shoes Piperlime.com has deals on great shoes such as the Dolce Vita Jollen in gold. Regularly priced at $125, ""GMA"" viewers can buy them for $62.50, 50 percent off. Just use the promo code: gma50off. Go quickly though, because this deal is available today only while supplies last. Emily Elizabeth Jewelry: Necklaces 60 Percent Off Today through Sunday, three necklaces from Emily Elizabeth Jewelry's ""lucky collection,"" are available to ""GMA"" viewers only for 60 percent off. The ""Lucky Clover"" necklace, priced at $42, is on sale for just $17. The ""Good Fortunes"" necklace priced at $65, is available for $26 and the ""Wishbone"" necklace priced at $60 is available for just $24.The sale can be unlocked using the promo code: GMA. Zulily: Designer Clothes Just in time for Easter, get a perfect dress for the little girl in your life at Zulily.com, a designer discount site with daily deals for moms, babies, and kids, with discounts ranging from 50 percent to 90 percent off retail. After creating a free account, ""GMA"" viewers can take an extra 15 percent off of those already-discounted prices by using the promo code: GMA15. 15% Off Any Order - Valid 4/1-4/4 (Furniture, Vouchers and Gift Cards Excluded - One use per member) CLICK HERE. Pillow Pets: With Any Purchase, Get 2 Games Free Pillow Pets, the plush toys/pillows, are available at a a great deal today through Saturday. ""GMA"" viewers that purchase one Pillow Pet get two board games free with their order - a $20 value - for an extra $2 for shipping. Plus, $1 from every Pillow Pets purchase will go to the Red Cross through the month of April. The deal can be unlocked using the promo code: GMA. Blurb: 25 Percent Off Photo Books Blurb.com, a do-it-yourself photo book site, is offering a great deal on its photo books until April 13 - a great gift for grandparents or for couples creating their wedding albums. At checkout, ""GMA"" viewers can enter the promo code: GMA (case sensitive) to get 25 percent off (Prices vary depending on the size of the photo books.) Discount offer valid through April 13, 2011 (11:59 p.m. local time). A 25% discount is applied toward the product total of one order. Maximum discount is US $100.00 off product totals, and requires a minimum purchase of US $12.95. This offer is good for one-time use and cannot be combined with other promotional codes, offers, gift cards, or used for adjustments on previous orders. Tory Johnson is the CEO of Women For Hire and the Workplace Contributor for ABC's ""Good Morning America."" 