Fashion for life: Why ethics girls have the best style
Dearly beloved, I have been addressing you from my Sunday pulpit for years now, spreading the good news about hemlines, ponchos and small leather goods. Only rarely am I given to sermonising, save the occasional hymn to the latest variety of Mulberry handbag. But occasionally belief and fashion collide. It may be in the queue to pay for a top that costs less than a Sunday newspaper, or the moment when you peer into your wardrobe and see 32 pairs of shoes staring blankly back. It may be when you read about pesticides on cotton, or the pennies paid to the women who sew the seams on your jeans. It may simply be the epiphany when you realise that you have enough. Enough stuff, enough already…until the thrill of the new sucks you in again and propels you to the till clutching a silk blouse in a must-have shade of olive green. All the while, though, there’s a lurking discomfort. Recent research shows that we Western women wear most of our clothes only a handful of times and throw before we sew. Over the past few years, though, thanks to better folk than me, plenty of alternatives have presented themselves. If you want to shop with a conscience, you can choose to buy from companies that work directly with producers (try People Tree or Gossypium), or from Yooxygen, a dedicated area on yoox.com devoted to ethically sourced products. You can buy ‘refashioned’ clothes at fromsomewhere.co.uk, junkystyling.co.uk or traidremade.com. And, if you have no fear of needles, you can always make clothes yourself with the help of websites like wardroberefashion.net or diy-couture.co.uk. If you want to shop with a conscience, it’s clear that there’s every excuse to make your fashion fairer Once you survey the scene, it’s clear that there’s every excuse to make your fashion fairer. I love Oxfam’s brilliant Curiosity Shop – dreamed up by Annie Lennox and now in its second year – which is on at Selfridges until next Sunday. The idea (like all the best fashion) is simple and stunning: donations from celebrities and fashion insiders, plus the pick of Oxfam’s vintage stock, are on sale at a pop-up shop in the store. At last year’s event, one lucky punter bagged Carey Mulligan’s Bafta dress – a glorious Vionnet gown – while Anne Hathaway donated a Vivienne Westwood and Beyoncé parted with some of her favourite numbers. In just over a week, the shop raised £250,000 for Oxfam’s women’s projects across the world. This year, Livia Firth has donated her many red-carpet dresses (she’s been out there a lot, given hubby Colin’s ubiquity, and wore only ethical designers throughout). Other donations come from Florence Welch, Helen Mirren, Dannii Minogue and Alice Temperley. Retail genius Jane Shepherdson is marshalling donations from fashion houses, and there are even styling classes hosted by editors, experts and A-list stars. This is where fashion’s feel-good factor really resides – where glamour and humanity meet. Oxfam, bless its socks, has put the fun into fundraising. Get yourself down to Selfridges, and – yes – go in peace. BIKE IT, YOU'LL LIKE IT Set to become West London’s one-stop style shop, Village Bicycle is the brainchild of fashion entrepreneur Willa Keswick. With red-hot labels including Mark Fast, Felder Felder, BodyAmr and Senso Diffusion (creators of these amazing wedges, right, £149), this lifestyle store à la Paris’s Colette also offers music, art and furniture, with prices starting from just £40. 79-81 Ledbury Road, London W11, imavillagebicycle.com SUMMER BREEZY Change is afoot at Joules. The label loved for its laid-back pieces in pops of bold colour has launched a Boutique line including limited-edition maxi dresses, silk shorts and cute playsuits (left, £89). Incorporating vintage prints and faded florals with a contemporary twist, they’re perfect for summer weddings and beach barbecues. Tel: 0845 250 7170, joules.com It’s darling! 