Beauty agenda: EcoTools adds e-commerce, Karl Lagerfeld opens beauty pop-up
Here are some of the biggest beauty events and releases coming up over the next few weeks. EcoTools e-commerce launches April 1 Online Just in time for Earth Month, ethical beauty brand EcoTools, represented by earth lover Alicia Silverstone, debuts its online shop this month. The company sells brushes and cosmetic bags as well as organic skincare, with prices starting at $7.99. http://www.parispresents.com/EcoTools_s/36.htm Karl Lagerfeld's Schwarzkopf pop-up opens April 16 Düsseldorf, Germany German haircare brand Schwarzkopf has teamed up with designer Karl Lagerfeld for the launch of a unique pop-up concept during Düsseldorf's Eurovision Song Contest this spring. The three-floor store will offer a hair salon and product shop as well as a café and exhibition area for contemporary art and design. Hair color, care, and styling workshops, ""ladies' nights"" and after-work parties will complete the line-up. http://www.schwarzkopf.de Fragrance launches Women's prestige Inspired by the roof garden of the Hermès building in Paris, the brand's latest fragrance of its garden series, Un Jardin sur le Toit, smells of apple, pear, rose, green grass, basil, magnolia and ""compost."" Prices start at $90. http://www.hermes.com As an update to his Oscar fragrance from the 1970s, Oscar de la Renta will launch Esprit d'Oscar ($78) in April. The new perfume's notes include lemon, bergamot, citron, jasmine, orange flower and tuberose. http://www.oscardelarenta.com Jil Sander will release a flanker to its popular Sun fragrance, called Sun Eau de Soleil (ca. $35), with notes including bergamot, lemon zest, pink grapefruit, nutmeg and woods. http://www.jilsander.com Following March's Ricci Ricci Dancing Ribbon, fashion house Nina Ricci has another new scent in the works: light and airy floral L'Air de Nina Ricci, a flanker to L'Air du Temps, featuring notes of magnolia, jasmine, honeysuckle and violet. Prices start at around $25. http://www.ninaricci.com Men's prestige With the bottle inspired by its Meisterstück pen, Montblanc's new men's fragrance Legend (lavender, bergamot, pineapple leaves, geranium, apple, rose, tonka bean, sandalwood) will stay true to the brand's tradition despite new licensing partner Inter Parfums. http://www.montblanc.com Yves Saint Laurent has come up with a flanker to its L'Homme fragrance called L'Homme Cologne Gingembre, a woody scent composed of bergamot, ginger, white pepper, vetiver, musk and cedar. http://www.ysl.com Niche Italian label Eau d'Italie will launch Jardin du Poète (priced around $140), a unisex fragrance inspired by Sicily, featuring notes of orange, grapefruit, basil, angelica, immortelle, pink pepper, cypress, vetiver and musk. http://eauditalie.com Celebrity Following Reese Witherspoon's successful Avon debut In Bloom, the brand will launch a new series of three fragrances with the actress called Expressions Love, Laugh, and Live, with the first, a ""floriental,"" launching next month for $22. http://www.avon.com Reality TV star Kim Kardashian is readying her second perfume Gold. Selling for $65, the scent includes notes of bergamot, grapefruit, pink pepper, jasmine, rose, violet, patchouli, sandalwood, amber, benzoin and musk. http://www.kardashianfragrance.com 