Calorie counts for everywhere from bakeries to vending machines (but don't worry, you can eat at the cinema guilt free)
Ever wondered how many calories are in your food when you dine out? Or in the snack you've just chosen in a vending machine? Or indeed your early morning latte? Well whether you have or not makes no difference. Because the FDA are now proposing that the amount of calories on each item on a menu be clearly posted for customers to see. Under the new labelling requirements, restaurant chains, bakeries, grocery stores, convenience stores, coffee chains and even vending machines will have to clearly post the amount of calories in each item. The new rules also apply to drive throughs. The calorie counts will apply to an estimated 280,000 establishments required as part of a health overhaul legislation signed into law last year. They are designed to give restaurant diners information that has long been available on packaged goods cooked at home. The FDA estimates that a third of the population's yearly calories are consumed by eating out. The move is the latest in a series of changes to battle the nation's epidemic of obesity. FDA deputy commissioner for foods Mike Taylor said: ""We've got a huge obesity problem in this country and its due in part to excess calorie consumption outside the home. ""Consumers generally when you ask them say they would prefer to have that information. Nobody thinks that it by itself solves the problem, but it's part of the tool kit. ""We see this as part of the overall effort to fight obesity."" There are some places, however, where people will be able to indulge in their favourite snacks without worrying about the calorie content. The rules won't apply in bowling alleys, airplanes, or even movie theatres, where a tub of popcorn can contain almost a thousand calories - any business whose primary goal is not to sell food. Alcohol will also be exempt. Margo Wootan, director of nutrition policy at the advocacy group Center for Science in the Public Interest, told the Huffington Post that these kind of restrictions could be misleading to consumers. She said: ""I think it's going to be confusing if customers see the calories for soft drinks and juice labeled on the menu but not other drinks such as beer and wine. It will make it seem like they are better choices."" Calorie counts would have to be displayed prominently on all menus and menu boards, including at drive-through locations and next to self-service foods, such as items in a salad bar. A California law requiring chain restaurants to display calorie counts has been in effect since January, but many counties have put off enforcing the regulation until the release of the federal guidelines. Some fast-food chains in the state, including McDonald's and Starbucks, have already begun displaying calorie counts on posted menus in some locations. Although public health and nutrition specialists welcomed the new rules, few suggested that they would make a substantial difference in the epidemic of overeating that adds an estimated $150billion a year to the nation's medical bill. The rate of obesity has more than doubled over the last 40 years. In 1971, an estimated 14.5 per cent of adults in the U.S. were obese, compared with about 35 per cent in 2008. 