In the World
Brain swelling tied to bear death BERLIN - The Berlin zoo's celebrity polar bear, Knut, drowned after swelling of his brain caused him to collapse and fall into his enclosure's pool, experts said Friday. A necropsy of the four-year-old bear who died suddenly two weeks ago showed he was suffering from encephalitis, an irritation and swelling of the brain that was likely brought on by an infection, pathologist Claudia Szentiks said. It remains unclear what that infection was, but Achim Gruber, a professor of veterinary medicine at Berlin's Free University, said it likely was a virus. Knut, who was born at the zoo, quickly rose to celebrity status as an irresistibly cute cub who had been rejected by his mother. Knut died March 19 in front of hundreds of visitors, turning around several times and then falling into the water in his enclosure. Experts who examined Knut found large quantities of fluid in his lungs, supporting the conclusion that the immediate cause of death was drowning. But they said that even if he hadn't fallen into the water he likely wouldn't have survived. - AP Suicide bomber kills 3 in Fallujah BAGHDAD - A suicide bomber disguised as a street cleaner walked up to soldiers outside a mosque and blew himself up Friday, killing two of the troops and a worshiper in a western Iraqi city that was once an al-Qaeda in Iraq hotbed. The blast wounded six people, including four soldiers who were stationed outside the Fallujah mosque to protect worshipers, according to a senior city police official. The unit's commander, an army colonel, was among the dead, the official said. Also Friday, about 65 people were wounded in a demonstration in the Kurdish city of Sulaymaniyah when protesters demanding jobs and better services began hurling stones at security forces. City health official Rekard Rasheed said at least 38 of the injured were policemen. - AP Anarchist group claims bombings ATHENS, Greece - An Italian radical anarchist group has claimed responsibility for three mail-bomb attacks on a Greek prison, an office of the Swiss nuclear power industry, and an Italian military barracks, authorities said Friday. Two of the bombs exploded, injuring two people in Switzerland and one in Italy, while officials at the maximum-security Korydallos prison in Athens defused the third device Thursday. Greek police said the Informal Anarchist Federation, or FAI, expressed solidarity with suspected radical anarchists in prison in Greece, Switzerland, Chile, and Germany, in a proclamation found inside the parcel. - AP Elsewhere: The Israeli military said Friday that its aircraft had attacked a group of Palestinians in Gaza it says was planning to abduct Israelis. A military spokeswoman said the group was plotting the attacks for the Jewish festival of Passover later this month, in Israel as well as in the popular Egyptian resort of Sinai. Gaza Health Ministry spokesman Adham Abu Salmia said three men were killed. 