William Hague statement: Diplomats expelled from Libyan embassy in London
The Government has expelled five diplomats from the Libyan embassy in London because they ""could pose a threat"" to national security. The move was revealed by William Hague in another emergency statement on the military action to the Commons this afternoon. The Foreign Secretary told MPs the five included the military attache as he updated the House on yesterday's summit in the capital. His statement came after David Cameron said during PMQs that Britain had not ruled out providing arms to rebels in the country. British warplanes have now flown more than 160 missions over Libya as they police the no-fly zone enforced against Colonel Muammar Gaddafi. More than 350 planes from 15 nations have been committed to the effort, with vessels from 10 countries supporting the arms embargo. Mr Hague said: ""The situation on the ground remains fluid. Regime forces have intensified their attacks, driving back opposition forces from ground they had taken in recent days. ""Misrata also came under heavy attack yesterday, with further loss of civilian life, including children, from mortars, sniper fire and attacks on all sides from regime tanks and personnel carriers. ""One obstacle to humanitarian support for the people of Misrata has been regime vessels trying to blockade the port. These vessels were attacked by coalition aircraft yesterday. Four of them were sunk and one vessel was beached."" It was confirmed that a British diplomatic mission, headed by UK ambassador to Italy Christopher Prentice, visited Benghazi on Monday and Tuesday to meet opposition groups including the INC and its military council. Mr Hague said: ""The London conference showed that we are united in our aims - seeking a Libya that does not pose a threat to its own citizens or to the region and in working with the people of Libya as they choose their own way forward to a peaceful and stable future. ""And it demonstrated that clear international support for the people of Libya. With that support there is every prospect of focused and sustained assistance to the people of Libya as they seek to determine their own future."" Earlier, Mr Cameron said the UN resolution permitting action in Libya ""would not necessarily rule out"" arming rebels fighting Gaddafi. The PM was asked by Labour leader Ed Miliband whether the terms of the resolution 1973 override the arms embargo imposed by the earlier resolution 1970. He replied: ""I have said before in the House that we must do everything to comply with both the Security Council resolutions. ""The arms embargo applies to the whole of the territory of Libya, but at the same time UN Security Council resolution 1973 allows all necessary measures to protect civilians and civilian-populated areas. ""Our view is that this would not necessarily rule out the provision of assistance to those protecting civilians in certain circumstances. We do not rule it out but we have not taken the decision to do so."" Former Lib Dem leader Sir Menzies Campbell warned that ""extreme caution"" must be taken on the issue. Mr Cameron said any decision to supply arms would have to be considered with ""due care"" as there were some ""very strong arguments"" on both sides. US Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, in London for the summit, suggested yesterday that it would be legal to arm the rebels. ""It is our interpretation that 1973 amended or overrode the absolute prohibition on arms to anyone in Libya, so that there could be a legitimate transfer of arms if a country should choose to do that,"" she said. Meanwhile, Italian foreign minister Franco Frattini confirmed that Rome was in discreet contact with a number of countries over the possibility of Gaddafi going into exile overseas. ""I hope there will be a certain number of states ready to host him - maybe under the auspices of the African Union, which can have leverage over them,"" he said. He ""categorically"" ruled out Italy offering Gaddafi a bolt-hole. Mr Cameron's official spokesman said: ""We have got a clear view, which is that he should go. We also think people should be held accountable for their actions. ""We are not engaged in looking for somewhere for him to go, but that doesn't exclude others doing so. Our priority is that he should go as soon as possible. ""I don't think exile necessarily precludes someone being held accountable by the ICC."" Mr Hague, asked last night about the possibility of exile, said: ""That is up to him. There is no doubt that if Colonel Gaddafi left power - wherever he went - there would be a major change in the situation, and that is what most of the world, and probably most of the Libyan people, want to see."" 