Media Matters: Accurately quoting Democratic Congressman constitutes a &#039;smear&#039;
Apparently, the ""watchdogs"" at Media Matters - a radical left wing group funded in part by George Soros - think that accurately quoting a Democratic Congressman somehow constitutes a ""smear,"" even when the context of the remark is explained. A headline at Media Matters screams, ""Right-Wing Media Smear McDermott; Claim He Called The Constitution ""Silly"""" with a subheadline claiming, ""Right-Wing Media Declare McDermott Is ""Tired Of Reading That Silly Old Constitution""."" Set aside for a moment the fact that Jim McDermott (D-WA) actually did say: Media Matters made their argument by quoting Fox News, conservative blog Hot Air, National Review, and this Examiner. According to Media Matters, Steve Doocy and Gretchen Carlson had this exchange: Naturally, Media Matters provided only a tiny segment of the program that dealt with McDermott's remark. As usual, they missed the entire point of the segment. The relevant part of the transcript, provided by livedash.com is below: To prove the point that Fox took McDermott out of context, Media Matters took Fox News out of context and only presented a tiny portion of a segment lasting nearly two minutes. Apparently, when one is at war with a network like Fox News, anything is fair. Quoting this article, Media Matters writes: Advertisement What is interesting here is that Media Matters never claims the congressman was misquoted, nor that the article took McDermott out of context. Only that someone said he made the statement. McDermott was quoted accurately and the context of his quote was explained and cited complete with an accompanying video. Evidently, reading comprehension must not be a requirement for employment at Media Matters. Media Matters later writes: ""In Fact, McDermott Criticized GOP For Focusing On ""Silly Things"" Instead Of ""Helping This Economy"" - a statement quite similar to that provided in the article they claim is a smear. In their attack on Hot Air, they write: So, Media Matters thinks that criticizing a Democrat is a smear? That's the impression one gets from reading their article. If Media Matters had bothered to read a little further they would have found this: In their attack on the National Review Online, Media Matters wrote: Once again, if Media Matters had bothered to read a little further, they would have found this: Which explains the central theme of the entire piece by Geraghty. Like poor marksmen, Media Matters misses the point by at least a country mile. At best, their attempted hit piece on ""conservative media"" proves that liberal blogger Lee Stranahan was correct when he called the radical group a ""truth killing machine."" Keep in mind this is an organization that has declared war on Fox News, and seeks to silence conservative voices whenever and wherever they can. Stranahan writes: If this is the best Soros money can buy, then maybe the billionaire Glenn Beck calls ""Spooky Dude"" should seek a refund and start over. - If you like this article, you can follow Joe on Twitter @jnewby1956, visit his Facebook page, or click the Subscribe button to receive email updates when a new article is published. Joe will discuss this issue - among others - with Craig Shaull at We Are America Radio Monday night at 7 pm Pacific time. 