Disgraced Dave Attwood hopes England will still come calling after ban for stamping
One boot in the face, a whole heap of consequences. Dave Attwood has spent the past four months pondering such matters. Given that he has got a degree in physics and philosophy from Bristol University he is well equipped to get his head around delicate issues. Attwood has had plenty on which to reflect, notably the fallout from a stamping incident in December against La Rochelle that led to a nine-week suspension. In its wake came demotion from the England senior squad, putting in jeopardy an international career that had barely begun. It had all looked so rosy: a summer tour to Australia last season, two caps from the bench in November and promise of things to come. And now? The World Cup is a remote prospect, all the more so given that Attwood is struggling to even get a start with Gloucester. He has managed 86 minutes playing time since the New Year. On Saturday afternoon he again has to make do with a place on the bench against Newcastle. Attwood is a chastened man, acknowledging that a bad-boy reputation was starting to take shape. He was cited for stamping on tour to Australia only for the case to be dismissed on a technicality. “It was reckless, petulant and daft,” says Attwood, of the La Rochelle incident. “It was a very unfortunate episode, one that has put a brake on everything.” At the time, Attwood was not fully aware of what had happened, although the fact that “a bunch of Frenchies spent the best part of an hour swinging punches told me that I’d done something”. He had. In the 15th minute of the Amlin Challenge Cup game against La Rochelle at Kingsholm, Attwood’s boot came down on the face of the opposition’s Romanian prop, Petrisor Toderasc. He had been tugged back by Toderasc and had struck out. Toderasc was taken to Gloucester Royal Infirmary that Sunday night but was released following treatment for broken teeth, cheekbone damage and cuts. Two days later reports from France suggested that Toderasc’s sight was in danger. “That Tuesday night was a pretty dark time for me,” Attwood says. “It was quite horrifying to think that someone might lose their sight. I don’t play rugby to go out to hurt people. ""I’m not a malicious bloke or a nasty player. I don’t want to be known as an enforcer.” Toderasc had not been blinded but Attwood was cited and banned for nine weeks. In January he was left out of England’s Elite Player Squad. The punishment was salutary and far-reaching. “It was completely my fault and I got what I deserved,” Attwood says candidly. “I’ve borne the brunt of it. Nine weeks has turned into 16 weeks. Yes, I have learnt a lesson from it. I’ve tarnished my reputation and I’ve got to work hard to recover that.” Attwood has come to realise that top-end rugby simply does not tolerate foul play. “I was brought up playing rugby in Bristol, where you took your medicine,” Attwood says. “I always knew that you weren’t allowed to do things but there would always be a ‘but’ in my mind. There isn’t any more. ""You simply can’t take the law into your own hands. It’s been difficult to get to grips with that, to get that blueprint in your mind. I’m more reflective now, more aware. You do have to turn the other cheek. “I’ve got to ensure that it doesn’t happen again. Of course in my position you’ve got to be aggressive and not take a backward step. But the game at this level is about power, performance and physicality. That’s how you really leave your mark. That’s what being a hard man means.” Attwood is an engaging character, articulate, honest, forthright and self-aware. He realises that his England prospects are bleak. “It would be foolish not to admit that I’ve significantly damaged my chances,” he says. “ It will be nigh on impossible now to squeeze back in. I’m resigned to that fact. England is not a realistic ambition at the moment. Doing all that I can for Gloucester is.” And that will not be for much longer. Attwood, 24 on Tuesday, has signed for West Country rivals Bath for next season. He does not believe that his lack of starting opportunities for Gloucester is anything to do with the fact that he is moving on. “I haven’t been frozen out at all, more that Gloucester have had a great run of form,” said Attwood, noting ruefully that his only start was in the 53-15 defeat by Harlequins last weekend. “That was a humping. Time is running out here and I owe Gloucester a massive amount. Moving to Bath was a very difficult decision. But [Gloucester owner] Tom Walkinshaw’s passing in December put contract talks on hold. ""Bath came in with an incredibly attractive offer. I can understand talk about loyalty and all that but it was about providing for my future.” England are still keeping a close eye on Attwood. He might yet get his chance in the Churchill Cup in June. They welcome the fact that he has got a bit of edge to him. “There have been no conversations with England about changing my ways,” Attwood says. “I guess they feel I’m bright enough to take it all on board.” It has been a formative year in the life of Attwood, rising from relative obscurity to win England honours. In hindsight, that was the easy bit. As Attwood comes to terms with taxing realities, you fancy the philosophy element of his degree will prove useful. “I’ve got to show that I’ve got the character to cope with all this,” Attwood says. “And that’s exactly what I intend to do.” 