This week's new film events
Bernardo Bertolucci, London In his early career, which forms the first half of this two-month retrospective, Bertolucci seems to have lived for danger. He was fascinated by eroticism and politics and the connections between them, which, combined with his fluid visual moves, made his films pulse with life. Even before the scandalous Last Tango In Paris, he'd dealt with fascism, murder, terrorism, incest and other hot potatoes in films like The Conformist, La Luna, The Spider's Stratagem and Before The Revolution. His career went widescreen and international, with the star-studded 1900, Oscar triumph The Last Emperor and so on, but the visual mastery never deserted him. Bertolucci himself is in conversation next Saturday and curator David Thompson gives a talk on 14 Apr. BFI Southbank, SE1, Thu to 30 Apr Radiophonic Weekend, Bristol Dick Mills (left), appearing as part of Cube's Radiophonic Weekend. The BBC's unlikely incubator of British electronica gets an aptly boffinish-yet-uber-cool tribute, with films, music, talks and cosmic oscillations from the outer reaches of the analogue universe this weekend, and a Daphne Oram salon in London (see Events Preview). The key screenings here are The Same Trade As Mozart, a 1969 documentary explaining this new-fangled electronic music to the concerned populace, and a new short doc on the workshop's luminous heroine Delia Derbyshire (who created the Doctor Who theme tune). Radiophonic veterans Dick Mills and David Cain will also be on hand with unheard clips and reminiscences on the workshop's 1950s/60s golden age. Cube cinema, Sat & Sun, visit cubecinema.com British Silent Film Festival, London Helen Of Four Gates. If you're looking for silence, don't watch these silents. The images may be mute but the bill includes skiffle band The Dodge Brothers (featuring Mark Kermode on double bass), a piano improv session (to old newsreels, like they used to), the world premiere of a 1925 score (to Soviet fairytale Morozko), plus archive recordings of early cinema audiences that promise to reveal the ""indecent behaviour"" of our forebears. For the eyes, highlights include Anna May Wong as an exotic Parisian dancer in Pavement Butterfly and the rediscovered Helen Of Four Gates, a 1920s working class tale set in Hebden Bridge. Barbican, EC2, Thu to 10 Apr, britishsilents.co.uk Italian Film, London, Edinburgh, Glasgow, Dundee Toni Servillo in A Quiet Life. Two countries, two Italian film festivals, and it's a tribute of sorts that there's hardly any overlap. The only movie playing at both the Italian Film Festival In Scotland and Riverside Studio's Italian Cinema London is the singular Le Quattro Volte, a captivating pastoral meditation on man and nature with more goat bleating than spoken dialogue. Both events have a pick of new offerings and both pay tribute to a great actor. In Scotland, it's Toni Servillo, who made such a stunning Andreotti in last year's Il Divo. See him here in several guises, including an exiled criminal in new thriller A Quiet Life. In London, it's Massimo Troisi, best known here for his last film, Il Postino, but with a long back catalogue as both actor and director. Italian Film Festival In Scotland at various venues, Sat to 14 Apr, visit italianfilmfestival.org.uk ; Italian Cinema London at Riverside Studios, W6, Sat to 10 Apr 