Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease to reach epidemic status in U.S.
LOS ANGELES, April 2 (Xinhua) - The United States could soon be faced with an epidemic of Non-Alcoholic Fatty Liver Disease ( NAFLD), one of the major contributing factors of chronic liver disease (CLD), the American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS) reported Saturday. If the current rates of obesity and diabetes continue for another two decades, the prevalence of NAFLD in the U.S. is expected to increase by 50 percent in 2030, AAAS said. The prediction is based on pre-existing clinical survey data over a 10 year period (1988-1994, 1999-2004 and 2005-2008), which included 39,500 adults from three survey cycles, according to the AAAS. Over the three cycles, the prevalence of NAFLD doubled from 5. 51 percent to 11 percent respectively. Furthermore, during the first survey cycle (1988-1994) 46.8 percent of all CLD's was related to NAFLD but by 2005-2008 this had increased to 75.1 percent. In addition, the prevalence of obesity and diabetes, the two key risk factors for NAFLD also steadily increased. ""If the obesity epidemic is anything to go by, the U.S. NAFLD epidemic may have a ripple effect worldwide,"" said Mark Thursz, Vice Secretary of the European Association for the Study of the Liver. ""It is imperative that health systems continue to drive effective educational programs to reinforce awareness among the general public to alert them of the risks of obesity and promote the importance of diet and exercise."" Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease is fast becoming one of the top concerns for clinicians due to the obesity epidemic and it's potential to progress to advanced liver disease which significantly impacts on overall liver-related mortality, Thursz said in remarks published by AAAS' website EurekAlert.org. NAFLD, considered as one of the major causes of morbidity and mortality worldwide, is the term used to describe fat build-up in liver cells in people who do not drink alcohol excessively. The disease is the most common persistent liver disorder in Western countries with an estimated overall prevalence of 20-30 percent, according to AAAS. NAFLD encompasses a spectrum of liver disease associated with insulin resistance, diabetes and obesity and as such people most at risk of NAFLD are those who are obese, have insulin resistance associated with diabetes, high blood pressure and cholesterol. 