Manchester United's Wayne Rooney apologises for swearing outburst after hat-trick goal against West Ham
Wayne Rooney’s hat-trick inspired another impressive Manchester United comeback at West Ham, although the striker was forced to apologise after swearing down a television camera after scoring his third goal. United swept back from 2-0 down at half-time to beat West Ham 4-2, going seven points clear at the top of the table. Rooney scored the first with a free-kick, finished crisply for the second and converted a penalty for his hat-trick. Javier Hernandez, on as a substitute, added the fourth. “We played like champions,” said Sir Alex Ferguson. “We didn’t lose faith in ability and that was important. It is not an easy place to come here, with them fighting relegation and at 2-0 down we were under the cosh. It was a real championship performance.” Ferguson conceded that Nemanja Vidic had enjoyed “a lucky break” when he was shown just a yellow card in the first half for pulling back Demba Ba when the last defender, but took issue with Lee Mason’s award of the second penalty against United. “It was outside the box,” he said. While Rooney delivered a superb performance his celebration of the third goal, when he was clearly picked up shouting “ - off” by the pitch-side camera, caused considerable embarrassment to the broadcasters, who apologised to viewers immediately. Rooney also said sorry for the outburst, which came just days after Premier League chief executive Richard Scudamore had demanded that the Respect campaign was better observed. He said: “I want to apologise for any offence that may have been caused, especially any parents or children watching. Emotions were running high and on reflection my heat-of-the-moment reaction was inappropriate. It was not aimed at anyone in particular.” An FA spokesman confirmed the governing body would “look at” the incident. Rooney could be charged with bringing the game into disrepute, although that is unlikely. It is not the first-time Rooney has got in trouble with pitch-side cameras. After England’s 0-0 draw with Algeria in last year’s World Cup, he directed a foul-mouthed tirade into a camera at fans who were booing the team off the pitch. 