India beats Sri Lanka to win cricket World Cup
MUMBAI, India (AP) - India won cricket's World Cup for the first time in 28 years Saturday with a six-wicket victory at home over Sri Lanka. The result touched off wild celebrations across India and gave the great Sachin Tendulkar his first title in six attempts. Tendulkar, the greatest batsman in cricket, was lifted onto his teammates' shoulders for a victory lap at Wankhede Stadium. ""It's the ultimate thing and I'm experiencing it,"" he said. ""I couldn't have asked for anything better. It's the proudest moment of my life."" Tendulkar was out for 18, unable to produce his 100th international century on his home ground. Still, his teammates dedicated the victory to him. ""He carried the hopes of the nation for 21 years so it's time we carried him on our shoulders,"" batsman Virat Kohli said. Skipper Mahendra Singh Dhoni scored an unbeaten 91, sharing a 109-run stand with Gautam Gambhir (97) and finishing with a giant six. India chased down Sri Lanka 274-6 and became the first team to win batting second in a final since Sri Lanka beat Australia by eight wickets in 1996. Australia won the three previous World Cups - 1999, 2003 and 2007. The 37-year-old Tendulkar, the leading run scorer in international cricket, praised those around him. ""It's never too late as they say. Thanks to all my teammates. Without such fabulous performance and such consistency it would never have happened,"" he said, adding he was brought to tears. ""They were happy tears, so I wouldn't mind crying."" Tendulkar was drenched in champagne by his teammates as the Indian squad carried the trophy around the stadium amid a scrum of cameras and fireworks blazing from the roof. There was traffic chaos on the adjoining Marine Parade, with the road jammed with cars and motor bikes honking horns, waving Indian flags and letting off firecrackers. Yuvraj Singh, who scored an unbeaten 21 in an unbroken fifth-wicket partnership with Dhoni, was voted player of the series. ""This is unbelievable. This is the most special one for whole of India, for Sachin, for the whole team. It's just amazing. We batted like champions."" Sangakkara said he was proud of the way his Sri Lankans pushed the tournament favorites to the limit, in the closest final since 1992. ""I'm very proud of everyone, especially Mahela Jayawardene who rose to the occasion with a great hundred,"" he said. ""It's been a great tournament for us. ""I must say the way India played they really deserved the tag of favorites."" There was no winning farewell to international cricket for Muttiah Muralitharan, the only survivor from Sri Lanka's 1996 winning squad. Muralitharan, the leading wicket taker in international cricket, was slowed by injuries. He did not have the spring he needs for the extra spin that has bamboozled batsmen for a generation. The result also made Mahela Jayawardene the first batsmen to score a century in a World Cup final and end up on a losing team. The match tilted twice, with India on top at the start before some late hitting led by Jayawardene. Lasith Malinga removed both Indian openers in an express pace opening spell to keep the visitors on track, but India's long batting lineup remained calm enough to keep grinding the target down. Jayawardene finished in a tie for the leading wicket taker in the tournament with 21. However, his last figures of 2-60 after his first five overs cost him just six runs. The Sri Lankans scored 63 runs in the last five overs in a batting power play, including 24 in the last nine balls. The match started amid confusion when the referee ordered a second coin toss because he couldn't hear Sangakkara's call. Sangakkara won the second toss, a rarity in the international game, and was relieved to be batting first. 