Broncos top brass skip the workout of D-lineman Bowers
Clemson defensive end Da'Quan Bowers threw a workout party Friday, and the Broncos' top football decision-makers did not attend. Bowers, whose right knee surgery earlier this year has threatened his top-10 status in the NFL draft, worked out at Clemson University while Broncos executive vice president of football operations John Elway, general manager Brian Xanders and coach John Fox elected to stay home and meet with Washington quarterback Jake Locker instead. Locker was at the team's Dove Valley complex. The Broncos, who have repeatedly said they like their quarterback triumvirate of Kyle Orton, Tim Tebow and Brady Quinn, also attended Missouri quarterback Blaine Gabbert's workout last month and are scheduled to be the last stop on Auburn quarterback Cam Newton's tour of teams later this month. Locker had been the top-ranked senior prospect by many teams before the 2010 season began, but he saw his draft stock take a hit as the Huskies struggled early last season before winning their last four games to finish 7-6, including a victory in the Holiday Bowl. Locker looked indecisive in the pocket at times this past season, but he's a natural athlete who rushed for more than 300 yards and passed for more than 2,000 yards in three of his four seasons. Locker had a difficult week at the Senior Bowl in January as he struggled with his accuracy. But he has performed well in workouts. Bowers, who had been a popular pick for the defense-starved Broncos at No. 2 by many draft analysts earlier this year, has seen his draft status take a potentially multimillion- dollar hit because of surgery just after the season to repair cartilage in his right knee. Bowers did not work out at the scouting combine in February as he recovered, nor did he work out at Clemson's first pro day last month. On Friday, with Broncos director of college scouting Matt Russell on hand, Bowers went through an entire workout. Representatives from three teams on hand said he still was not 100 percent and appeared to have difficulty cutting on the repaired leg. His 40-yard dash times were in the high 4.8s and low 4.9s — depending on the watch — which are slightly slower than he likely would have run before the surgery. Teams examined Bowers' knee closely during the medical exam at the combine, and several scouts have said some team officials are concerned the knee may still give Bowers trouble. Bowers is 6-feet-3, 280 pounds and is a force when healthy. He led the nation in sacks in 2010 with 15 1/2 and won the Nagurski and Ted Hendricks awards. The Broncos have an interest in another Clemson defensive lineman who worked out Friday, tackle Jarvis Jenkins. At 6-4, 310 pounds, Jenkins showed good power and quickness off the ball at the Senior Bowl practices in January. Jeff Legwold: 303-954-2359 or jlegwold@denverpost.com 