Rooney Outscores West Ham as Manchester United Rallies for Victory
Wayne Rooney scored a natural hat trick in a 14-minute span of the second half, his first three-goal game in 14 months, to help Manchester United recover from a two-goal halftime deficit Saturday and beat host West Ham United, 4-2. The win keeps United on course for a record 19th Premier League title. Two penalty kicks by Mark Noble, after fouls by Patrice Evra and Nemanja Vidic, put relegation-threatened West Ham ahead, 2-0, before the 25th minute at Upton Park in London. Rooney trimmed the deficit in the 65th and tied the scored eight minutes later with a low shot across goalkeeper Robert Green. Rooney put United ahead for the first time with a 79th-minute penalty awarded for a hand ball by Matthew Upson, and the Mexico international Javier Hernández then put the result beyond doubt with his 11th Premier League goal of the season. The victory gave United 66 points and an 8-point lead (pending later games) with seven matches remaining. BUNDESLIGA GAME ABANDONED The German federation will investigate the beer-throwing incident that forced the referee to suspend a Bundesliga match Friday night. The game between St. Pauli and Schalke in Hamburg was abandoned in the 88th minute when a plastic beer cup hit a linesman in the neck. Schalke was leading at the time, 2-0. The federation said Saturday that it would look into the incident at the start of the week. St. Pauli faces a fine and could also be ordered to play a home game without spectators. The police identified the fan who threw the cup and detained him, according to St. Pauli’s security chief, Sven Brux. The fan was not identified. The victory is likely to be awarded to Schalke with a final score of 2-0. “We cannot tolerate such incidents,” the league chief executive, Holger Hieronymus, said. The linesman Thorsten Schiffner was struck and fell to the ground but was unhurt. The referee Deniz Aytekin decided to end the game after consulting with Schiffner. “It’s always sad when a game ends before time,” Aytekin said. “But we had to call off the game. There was no other choice.” He pointed out that coins and lighters had also been thrown at Schiffner, who had to be examined by a doctor. “That’s totally unacceptable, it’s not tolerated and I can only apologize to the linesman,” St. Pauli Coach Holger Stanislawski said. “We can swear on the bench, on the field you can play hard, but if you throw things, you are endangering others.” It was the seventh game in Bundesliga history to be suspended, the federation said. The action on the field was also heated, with St. Pauli ending up with only nine players after two were sent off. Raúl González and Julian Draxler scored for Schalke in Coach Ralf Rangnick’s first game in charge since returning to the club after Felix Magath was fired. After the match Schalke said that Christoph Metzelder, Mario Gavranovic and Peer Kluge were doubtful for Tuesday’s Champions League quarterfinal first-leg match at the defending champion Inter Milan after being injured against St Pauli. DAY GAMES IN J-LEAGUE Matches in Japan’s J-League will kick off before 2 p.m. to help save energy after last month’s deadly earthquake and tsunami knocked out a nuclear power plant. The J-League also said matches in May would start by 4 p.m. as Japan battles power shortages and planned blackouts to reduce the strain on the country’s electricity grid. Japan’s federation said the national team’s J-Village training complex, which is close to the stricken nuclear plant, was to be moved south temporarily. J-Village is currently home to the workers struggling to avoid a meltdown at the plant in Fukushima, about 150 miles north of Tokyo. The J-League was suspended after the 9.0 earthquake and subsequent crisis in Fukushima. It plans to restart on April 23. (REUTERS) 