Former Boston GM Lou Gorman dead at 82
One last opening day for ex-Red Sox GM Former Red Sox general manager James ""Lou"" Gorman , the architect of the team that came within one strike of winning the 1986 World Series against the New York Mets, died early Friday morning of congestive heart failure in Boston after a yearlong illness. He was 82. ""All he wanted to do was make it to opening day, and he made it,"" said his nephew, Tom Dougherty. Gorman was Boston's GM from 1984 to 1993. His greatest success was with the 1986 Red Sox led by Roger Clemens , Wade Boggs , and Jim Rice , who came back to beat the California Angels in the AL Championship Series in a classic, then lost the world title to the Mets in a World Series that turned on the Game 6 play in which Mookie Wilson's slow roller went through Bill Buckner's legs. New York went on to win Game 7. The close miss further embittered Boston fans, but not Gorman. When contract talks with Clemens broke down in 1987, the GM dismissed the doomsayers thus: ""The sun will rise. The sun will set. And I will have lunch."" Now that's long-term thinking, or something Kansas City Royals relievers have switched sides. (We know what you're thinking: Who could blame them?) It seems that, since Kauffman Stadium opened in 1973, the home team bullpen had always been behind right field, the visitors' behind left. But now they have switched, giving the Royals dugout brain trust a better view of what's happening in their ""pen. One wonders what they had tried in the intervening 38 years: An elaborate system of mirrors? Sending notes over to the opposing team? Carrier pigeons? In other Royals news: The whole team is barely making more than New York Yankees third baseman Alex Rodriguez this year. Kansas City's 27 players on its opening-day roster total $36.1 million, while A-Rod alone makes $32 million. No truth to the rumor that Royals fans would make that trade. Winn calls it a career Outfielder Randy Winn (left), late of the Baltimore Orioles, is retiring at age 36 after 13 major-league seasons. A career .284 hitter with 110 home runs and 662 RBIs, the solid vet was also once traded for a manager - going from Tampa Bay to Seattle as compensation when former Mariners manager Lou Piniella left to take over the Rays. Show of solidarity Minnesota's Justin Morneau , who missed the end of the 2010 season with a concussion, was welcomed by his BP group - Jason Kubel , Joe Mauer , and Jim Thome - all wearing helmets instead of caps as they took their cuts. 