Phillies display a desire to win
PHILADELPHIA - They remain the Fightin' Phils. Beyond the talent, the monster signings, and even the big injuries, the Phillies have an incredible will to win, and they showed that again yesterday, coming up with a six-pack of singles in the ninth inning to score three runs to stun the Astros, 5-4, at Citizens Bank Park in their opener, giving the Mets a glimpse of what awaits them next week. ""That was just desire to win,"" said Jimmy Rollins, who got the rally started with a single to right. This marked the Phillies' first Opening Day walk-off win in 37 years. ""No one wanted to make that last out,"" the shortstop said. ""I think everyone personally felt that Roy [Halladay] didn't deserve to get a loss after a performance like that."" After the strong outing from the Cy Young winner and the huge comeback, the Phillies have the comfort of knowing Cliff Lee will be on the mound tonight for the second game of the season. The Yankees, the team that Lee spurned because they were too old, in his mind, will be throwing the human question mark, A.J. Burnett, today in their second game. ""It's good to have Cliff coming up [tonight],"" Rollins said with a knowing smile. Halladay, who allowed only one run over six innings, said: ""With this team, there are never games when you feel like you've lost hope. Games like today show you we are going to win as a team all year. That's the only way we are going to achieve the goals we want to achieve."" The Phillies have won the NL East four straight years and have delivered two pennants and one World Series victory over that span. They never panic. That is why their baseball lives have been so rewarding since the Mets' Great Collapse while the Mets' world has been so hopeless. With no Chase Utley (knee) at second, no Brad Lidge (shoulder) in the bullpen and no Jayson Werth in right, Werth's replacement Ben Francisco bounced back from a bad day to rip an RBI single in the ninth. Young John Mayberry Jr., who will see time in right, delivered the winning base hit, a line drive over the head of drawn-in center fielder Michael Bourn. Ex-Mets castoff Wilson Valdez also delivered an RBI-single against closer Brandon Lyon. All this happened after Philly fans, of course, started to boo. Rollins said one fan even jumped on the dugout and screamed that his American Legion team could do better. ""Everybody was a little panicked,"" Francisco said of the outside world's reaction to the Utley injury and other problems going on around the Phillies, ""but we got good players here."" Said Mayberry of his shaving-cream pie in the face day: ""This is the script I would have written."" The Phillies forever remain the team to beat. ""We have a bull's-eye on our back,"" Phillies manager Charlie Manuel said. After being beaten in the NLCS last October by the Giants, who went on to win the World Series, the Phillies are more determined than ever to win it all this season. They think they will with the addition of Lee. That's what makes this baseball reality series so much more interesting than so many other teams. It only took one game for the Phils to deliver the magic formula again. Make no mistake, the Phillies work at their craft. Manuel is all about taking the right approach at the plate. In spring training, Rollins said, they worked daily in batting practice on hitting singles to get the runner home. The six singles didn't just happen. Rollins said this was the kind of Opening Day that memories are made of when you are a Phillie. He listed his top three Opening Day memories. ""We got the chance to open up the stadium, and we got the chance to get our rings, and then we got today,"" he said. And tonight they got Lee on the mound. Life is good in this part of the NL East. kevin.kernan@nypost.com 