Report: Former UConn recruit ready to talk to NCAA
Nate Miles is open to talking to the NCAA about his recruitment by Connecticut, and the former prep star told The New York Times that Huskies coach Jim Calhoun knew he received improper benefits from a former team manager. Connecticut, which faces Kentucky in the Final Four on Saturday, was penalized by the NCAA in February for recruiting violations involving Miles and other infractions. Calhoun was cited by the NCAA for failing to create an atmosphere of compliance within the program and suspended for the first three Big East games of the 2011-12 season. Miles, who was expelled from UConn in October 2008 without ever playing for the Huskies, refused to participate in the investigation. In a story posted on The New York Times' website Friday night, Miles said he ""probably"" would be open to talking to the NCAA now to ""get some things straight."" NCAA spokeswoman Stacey Osburn said the organization made several attempts to contact Miles during its investigation. ""During these efforts, it was made clear Nate was not going to talk to us,"" Osburn said. ""If new information comes to light, the next step is to assess its credibility and determine if further steps are needed."" Miles disputed several aspects of Calhoun's account of his recruitment. Miles said former UConn assistant Tom Moore introduced him to Josh Nochimson, and the former team manager provided shoes and clothes, along with $250 every three days once Miles committed to the Huskies. Miles also told SLAM Magazine for a story posted on its website Wednesday that Moore introduced him to Nochimson. Calhoun told the NCAA that Moore did not make that introduction, and Moore, now the coach at Quinnipiac, declined comment when reached by the Times on Thursday night. In his talks with the newspaper, Miles also said Calhoun and Moore did not warn him against taking gifts from Nochimson, and only brought him up once _ after Miles was on campus. According to Miles, Calhoun was aware of the benefits provided by Nochimson, which included paying for toe surgery for the prized recruit. ""Coach Calhoun denies any claim that he knew that Nate Miles was receiving impermissible benefits,"" Scott Tompsett, a lawyer representing Calhoun, said in a statement released by Connecticut. ""Moreover, Nate Miles submitted a signed statement to the NCAA last year that contradicts his current story. Coach Calhoun cooperated fully with the NCAA's investigation and considers this matter closed."" In part of Friday's statement, Connecticut highlighted its cooperation with the NCAA during the investigation of the men's basketball program. ""The now publicly available record of the NCAA Infractions Committee proceedings reflects the cooperation or lack thereof of those individuals the NCAA and the University sought to interview as part of their joint investigation,"" it said. ""That record speaks for itself."" The university said if new information is provided ""from credible sources,"" it will share it with the appropriate NCAA officials. 