Giants lose to Dodgers again, 4-3
LOS ANGELES - Brandon Belt's first major league home run was a three-run objet d'art. It slipped like a pearl over the center-field fence, landed in a restricted area and gave the Giants a two-run advantage in the fourth inning Friday night. ""Hopefully I'll get it back,"" the rookie said. ""Unless some security guard threw it in the trash."" Discarding priceless items? Two games and five errors into 2011, that's been the Giants' sad refrain. For the second consecutive night, bad throws and clanking glovework resulted in a one-run defeat. Guillermo Mota gave up a tiebreaking single to Rafael Furcal in a mistake-filled, three-run sixth inning as the Giants lost 4-3 at Dodger Stadium. And Jonathan Sanchez forever lost the right to complain that spring training lasts too long. Sanchez, fresh off six weeks of tedious fielding practice, allowed the tying run to score in the sixth when he failed to scoop a 45-foot dribbler from pinch hitter Hector Gimenez - the Giants' second error in the inning. Third baseman Pablo Sandoval also contributed an errant throw, mistakes that nullified the euphoria of Belt's first major league home run. ""No, this is not how we thought we'd open here,"" said Giants manager Bruce Bochy, asked about those five errors. ""We shot ourselves in the foot. It's that simple. ""... Are we discouraged? No. It's early. There's no excuse, but these guys have worked hard. We're just getting in rush mode when we don't have to."" The way Sanchez was missing bats, it looked as if Belt's homer would stand up. The left-hander topped 200 strikeouts a year ago, and he had tremendous stuff in his debut, using his change-up and splitter to strike out eight in the first five innings. He made one early mistake in the third to Matt Kemp, who hit a ground-rule double that scored a run. But Kemp's daring hustle ignited the Dodgers' rally in the sixth. He hit a leadoff single and didn't stop sprinting when Marcus Thames sent a hit-and-run grounder to Sandoval. Kemp advanced to third as Sandoval threw across the diamond, positioning him to score on James Loney's sacrifice fly. The Giants collapsed from there. Rod Barajas hit a two-out single, and the Dodgers spent the rest of the inning exploiting an innocuous looking patch of grass between the mound and third base. First, Aaron Miles hit a nubber that Sandoval barehanded but threw offline to first base, putting runners at second and third. Then Gimenez managed a tapper that Sanchez (0-1) fumbled as Barajas scored the tying run. Sanchez became excited when Gimenez provided the grounder he needed to escape with the lead. A little too excited. ""I went too fast, and I just missed it,"" Sanchez said. ""That cost us the game."" It cost Sanchez a victory, too, and the baseball. Furcal greeted Mota with a line drive to right field that put the Dodgers ahead. In Thursday's opener, Belt had the best at-bats in the afternoon shadows against Clayton Kershaw, seeing 27 pitches over his four plate appearances. The rookie saw the ball even better against Chad Billingsley, bringing new meaning to the term, ""belt-high fastball"" while crushing a 2-0 pitch that gave the Giants a 3-1 lead. Belt held a serious countenance as he sprinted down the line and didn't change his expression as teammates greeted him with helmet slaps and high fives. It wasn't until he visited the bat rack and braced himself for a bear hug from Sandoval that Belt broke into a huge smile. He told Sandoval that he felt as if he were dreaming. ""It doesn't feel like I'm here right now,"" said Belt, soberly. ""But it's tough when you don't pull out a win. ""I hit that ball well. Then I thought, ""Oh my, he might catch it."" It looked like a wall scraper from where I was."" In case anyone is wondering, no National League club has produced consecutive rookie of the year winners since the Dodgers collected five trophies (Mike Piazza, Eric Karros, Raul Mondesi, Hideo Nomo, Todd Hollandsworth) from 1992-96. It was not a wonderful night for the reigning NL rookie, though. Buster Posey rolled over an outside pitch while grounding into a double play in the first inning, then flicked his bat into the stands while striking out to strand the bases loaded in the seventh. Jonathan Broxton, who lost his job as the Dodgers"" closer last season, pitched the ninth to protect a one-run victory for the second consecutive night. 