Sixers cruise past Nets to clinch playoff spot
Unlike the theatrical Phillies, the Sixers rolled early, leaving little doubt that the lowly Nets would limp out of the Wells Fargo Center after enduring their ninth loss in the last 10 games and that the Sixers would be skipping into the playoffs in a few weeks, for the first time since 2009. ""It's a great feeling,"" said forward Elton Brand, who will be making the second playoff appearance of his 12-year career. ""You don't know until it happens. We're glad we handled our business and we don't have to wait for this team or that team to lose. We did it in our own manner, especially from where we came from, 3-13 and that tough start."" Coach Doug Collins impressed upon anyone who would listen early in the season how important it was for his two veterans, Brand and Andre Iguodala, to be leaders on the court and vocal directors. The two have not disappointed their coach, helping to lead a painfully young team through that tough start. It is now not only a playoff team, but one that will have a first-round opponent more than a little nervous. ""To do this tonight in front of our home fans is such an accomplishment,"" said Collins, who has a chance to lead the Sixers to their first winning season since 2004-05. ""EB and Dre really led the way for us. And Thad [Young] has been amazing. When he and Lou [Williams] play like they do off the bench, it makes us a whole different team."" The Sixers had it all running smoothly last night, so much so that the normally soppy Collins was pretty much bone dry after the game. Young scored a game-high 22, including four slam dunks and various other inside-the-lane finishes. Brand added 21, while Jrue Holiday posted 17 points, seven assists and six rebounds. Iguodala added 14 points and seven assists and did his usual stellar job defensively, at times even shutting down Nets All-Star point guard Deron Williams. Last season, swingman Young made life easy on his defenders, many times opting for stand-still jump shots. This year, as designed by Collins, Young is torturing foes with dizzying drives to the basket, often contorting himself in ways usually saved for a circus. He has prospered greatly under Collins' tutelage and will be one of the main weapons at his coach's disposal come the postseason. ""[Making the playoffs] is much more memorable,"" said Young, who will be making his third playoff appearance with the club. ""To see where we came from, 3-13, and now we've clinched a playoff spot with our 40th win. It's definitely a great feeling and we've got a great group of guys here. We're all standup guys, we all love each other and we're ready to go to battle for each other each and every night."" The lead grew to as many as 33 early in the fourth quarter, enabling Collins to get some much-needed rest for some of his players, especially Iguodala and Brand, who have been battling injuries. And with the lack of resistance from the Nets for most of the night, those who did play significant minutes didn't seem to have to exert much energy. Holiday, being only 20, often is asked to name his favorite point guards in the league. Without hesitation, he points out Williams. In just his second game back after missing six with a wrist injury, Williams didn't do much to cement himself in Holiday's idol category, scoring only four points in a little more than 22 minutes and dealing seven assists. Though he never knows how his tendinitis-ridden right knee is going to feel, Iguodala must have been feeling pretty good at the beginning of the game as he scored 12 points in the first quarter, hitting a pair of three-pointers and slicing strong to the basket. ""Tonight I think he hit a couple of early jumpers, which got him going,"" Collins said. ""I think that really ignites the rest of his game, then he's slashing and cutting. He's one of the most unselfish players I've ever been around. I've never seen a guy who gets more excited for kicking the ball to a guy hitting a shot than he does."" Iguodala's hot start propelled the big win and allowed for him and Brand to sit the fourth quarter, which could come in handy tonight when the team faces the Bucks in Milwaukee. Of course, Cliff Lee will be taking the mound for the Phillies, so to many, the Sixers will be an afterthought once again. No matter to them. They proved that they're something the Phillies aren't yet this year - a playoff team. Six shots Every Sixer played at least 5 minutes and Andre Iguodala played the most time, a little more than 32 minutes . . . The Sixers improved to 11-2 when Thaddeus Young scores 20 or more. For more Sixers coverage, read the Daily News' Sixers blog, Sixerville, at www.philly.com/Sixerville. Follow him on Twitter at http://twitter.com/BobCooney76. 