Suns rout Clippers 111-98 despite missing Steve Nash
PHOENIX - No Steve Nash? No problem for the Phoenix Suns, who routed the Los Angeles Clippers 111-98 despite missing their star point guard. Balanced scoring led to six Suns players in double figures. They were led by the ageless wonder, 38-year-old Grant Hill, who scored 19 points on 6-of-9 from the field. Hakim Warrick had 19, Jared Dudley had 16, Zabian Dowdell scored 14, Aaron Brooks put up 12 and Marcin Gortat had 10 points to go with his 11 rebounds. Both teams were hampered by ills - the Suns' Nash and Gortat were both battling the flu, leaving Nash out of the lineup while Gortat stayed in as he toughed through his sickness. The Clippers were minus center Chris Kaman, who was also dealing with a viral illness. Unfortunately, the Clippers' ills extended to the basketball court. They broke out with a rash of turnovers, 21 for the night. ""A lot of mistakes,"" said Clippers coach Vinny Del Negro. ""Just a lot of mistakes and we're always playing catch-up all the time and it makes it tough."" The Suns shot the ball with pinpoint precision, hitting 52 percent from the field. A 32-21 second quarter put the Suns up by 13 at halftime, which mirrored the point total for Hill in the first half. Things went from bad to worse as the Suns' lead ballooned to 22 in the third quarter and then 25 in the fourth. Anything the Clippers did from then on would be too little too late. Advertisement Blake Griffin had 20 points and 13 rebounds while Eric Gordon contributed 21 points, including 4-of-9 from three-point range. Randy Foye tallied 10 points off the bench. ""We got a few guys that are giving a real sound effort overall I think and some guys that are trying,"" said Del Negro. ""We're not converting when we need to. And we're making the game a lot harder than we need to and that's just because we're young and inexperienced."" Other than Gordon and Griffin, the Clippers' overall energy was largely nonexistent. ""We were out of sync,"" said Del Negro. ""I didn't think we had great energy tonight. We let Phoenix run where they wanted to, when they wanted to. The Suns' bench outpointed the Clippers' bench 45-32. Rather than penetrate to the basket, the Clippers were at ease with relying on jump shots - 27 three-point attempts against 11 makes. ""We just weren't physical enough,"" Del Negro added. ""We made four free throws at the half, we weren't attacking the basket, settling for jumpers. Lack of leadership, lack of focus, lack of executing the plan. ""But you know, we gotta grind it out. Gotta get our energy back for tomorrow night and find a way tomorrow night against a really tough team (Oklahoma City Thunder) to play much better."" 