Clouds over Amazon.com
Amazon.com’s recently announced cloud-based music storage and streaming product has already run into resistance from the recording industry, but the service may have bigger problems than that. While some music fans are applauding the idea of storing their tunes in the cloud, the Amazon Cloud Drive is facing criticism because of the time it takes to upload files and fueling experts’ doubts. Carl Howe, director of the Yankee Group’s Anywhere Consumer Research Group, said the market for the service has yet to be proven. “I really don’t hear people complaining that they don’t have cloud access to their music,” he said. The service gives users 5 gigabytes of free space to store files — music, photos or documents, for example — in the cloud, accessible from any computer with an Internet connection. Extra storage can be purchased for $1 per GB, at intervals ranging from 20GB to 1,000GB. Songs bought through Amazon’s MP3 store can be automatically uploaded to the cloud service, and streamed via Web browser or a mobile app made for Google’s Android mobile operating system. The app will not be available for Apple iOS devices such as the iPhone or iPad. Apple, which has been the dominant player in digital music for years, imposes restrictions on music-playing apps sold in the iTunes App Store. Amazon’s streaming service has already run afoul of the record labels, which want licensing fees for the streamed music and the company has quickly agreed to work out deals with the labels. Apple bought music- streaming company LaLa in 2009, but shut the service down last year. At the time, rumors swirled that Apple was readying a cloud-based iTunes, but Howe said iTunes’ success has been based on Apple’s philosophy that people like to own their music and carry it around with them. Google is reportedly testing a new music service. Howe said the Cloud Drive is trying to do too many things — including acting as a digital storage locker and streaming music service — which may confuse consumers. “It’s got to decide what it wants to be when it grows up,” he said. Still, Howe added that the market may develop after a few years, and called the service a low-risk move on Amazon’s part, since the technology is built on the company’s existing cloud infrastructure. “They already had this stuff,” he said. bizsmart@bostonherald.com 