Tech Ticker
Netflix Adds more shows Netflix (NFLX), the Los Gatos online DVD rental company turned Internet streaming destination, is adding previous seasons of ""Glee"" and ""Sons of Anarchy"" to its instant viewing service. In an expanded deal with Hollywood studio Twentieth Century Fox, Netflix also will be able to show older television series including ""Ally McBeal"" and ""The Wonder Years."" ""Our members love TV shows, and making such pop-culture hits like ""Glee"" and ""Sons of Anarchy"" available to watch instantly reinforces our commitment to provide them a wider selection of programs,"" Ted Sarandos, Netflix's chief content officer, said in a news release Friday. Netflix's online streaming service is available to subscribers who pay $7.99 a month or more. Customers can view movies and TV shows on Mac and Windows computers, mobile devices and TVs connected to numerous consumer electronics products including the Xbox 360, Nintendo Wii and Sony's PlayStation 3. - Frank Russell, Mercury News TiEcon Case to speak AOL co-founder Steve Case - now chairman of the Startup America Partnership - will give the keynote speech at this year's TiEcon conference in Silicon Valley. Startup America, a nonprofit formed to encourage high-growth enterprises across the U.S., was launched in January at the White House with support from Silicon Valley tech companies including Google (GOOG), Intel (INTC), Hewlett-Packard (HPQ) and Facebook. ""At TiE, we strive to nurture the innovation of entrepreneurs, and admire the work that Steve has done in creating the Startup America Partnership,"" Vish Mishra, president of TiE Silicon Valley, said in an email this week. TiE's conference is scheduled for May 13-14 at the Santa Clara Convention Center. More information can be found at www.tiecon.org. - Frank Russell, Mercury News Airwaves Auction discussion The Obama administration plans to discuss its plan to auction underused TV airwaves at a White House event April 6 featuring Google's chief economist and Council of Economic Advisers Chairman Austan Goolsbee. Potential benefits include reducing the deficit, fostering the next generation of wireless technologies and expanding wireless coverage, according to a White House news release Friday. The administration wants to devote more spectrum to wireless high-speed Internet service, or broadband, and proposes paying television-station owners who voluntarily surrender excess airwaves. The proposal needs congressional approval. Broadcasters say they want the U.S. to examine how spectrum is used before beginning any auctions. - Bloomberg News 