The week's top 10 videos on MarketWatch
In case you missed them, here are the 10 most popular videos that appeared on MarketWatch for the week of March 28-April1: Mozilla strikes back with Firefox 4 In the long browser wars, Mozilla's Firefox has lost its dominance in recent years to Google's Chrome and Apple's Safari. Walt Mossberg tests the newly released Firefox 4, and finds it is an improvement, but says many of its new features are catch-ups to the other browsers. Watch Video Report. Dow wraps up best Q1 since 1999 Laura Mandaro and Bob O'Brien discuss why the Dow managed to end the first quarter of 2011 with its biggest percentage gain for the period since 1999 despite the recent disaster in Japan as well unrest in the Middle East. Watch Video Report. Trading Strategies: Stock buyers beware Middle East upheaval and questions about U.S. economic strength cloud the outlook for stocks, says Bernard Baumohl, chief global economist at The Economic Outlook Group. Investors should boost allocations to cash, gold, and consumer-staples stocks. Watch Video Report. Rex on Techs: Kodak's moment Rex Crum says that a favorable trade commission ruling against Apple and RIM may just help Kodak from going the way of Kodachrome. Watch Video Report. Paul Allen slams Bill Gates in memoir According to a new memoir by Microsoft co-founder Paul Allen, Bill Gates schemed to take shares in Microsoft following his partner's treatment for cancer. Kevin Delaney and Julia Angwin discuss the roles the two men have played over the years and whether divergent paths at the top of the tech world are unavoidable. Watch Video Report. Violence as U.K. workers protest against cuts A splinter group is blamed for smashing windows and attacking police vans as tens of thousands march against government cuts. Watch Video Report. Large-cap stocks may be in favor U.S. stocks overcame rough spots to post solid gains in the first quarter. Max Bublitz, chief investment strategist at SCM Advisors, discusses which stock sectors will fare best in the second quarter and what to expect as policy-makers consider reining in liquidity. Interview by Laura Mandaro in San Francisco. Watch Video Report. That tax credit could cost you Because of a snag in the Making Work Pay Credit, millions of taxpayers, especially seniors, could end up with an unexpected tax bill. Kelsey Hubbard talks with Rachel Ochman about how to know what you owe. Watch Video Report. Why more kids are learning to say ""namaste"" Yoga for children is taking off in studios, hospitals and schools across the country, as parents look for new activities that can help motor skills development and even behavioral problems. Watch Video Report. Tsunami survivors return to ruined village Residents return to tsunami-ravaged areas of Japan to salvage belongings as many fear their communities will become ghost towns. 