Why Microsoft filed a formal complaint about Google and the search giant's reponse
Microsoft has made its first-ever formal complaint to antitrust regulators in the Euroean Union, alleging that Google systematically thwarts Internet search competition. This is how Microsoft and Google responded to the complaint. Microsoft: Competition must be fair Posted by Brad Smith Senior vice-president & general counsel, March 30 2011 Microsoft is filing a formal complaint with the European Commission as part of the Commission's ongoing investigation into whether Google has violated European competition law. At the outset, we should be among the first to compliment Google for its genuine innovations, of which there have been many over the past decade. Google has done much to advance its laudable mission to ""organise the world's information"", but we're concerned by a broadening pattern of conduct aimed at stopping a competitive alternative. We've therefore decided to join a large and growing number of companies registering their concerns about the European search market. By the European Commission's own reckoning, Google has about 95pc of the search market in Europe. This contrasts with the United States, where Microsoft serves about a quarter of Americans' search needs either directly through Bing or through our partnership with Yahoo!. Our filing today focuses on a pattern of actions that Google has taken to entrench its dominance in the markets for online search and search advertising to the detriment of European consumers. How does it do this? Google has built its business on indexing and displaying snippets of other organisations' web content. It understands that search engines depend upon the openness of the web to function properly, and it's quick to complain when others undermine this. Search engines compete to index the web as fully as possible to generate good search results, they compete to gain advertisers – the source of revenue in this business – and distribution of their search boxes through websites. Consumers will not benefit from clicking to alternative sites unless all search engines have a fair opportunity to compete in each of these areas. Our filing details many instances where Google is impeding competition, for instance, since Google acquired YouTube in 2006 it has put in place a growing number of technical measures to restrict competing search engines from properly accessing it for their search results. Microsoft recognises the importance of ensuring that competition laws remain balanced and that technology innovation moves forward. Google: We try to be as open as we can Posted by Matt Cutts, Principal engineer, Search Quality Team, March 2 2010 Recently the European Commission opened a preliminary inquiry into competition complaints. Part of the complaint alleges that Google operates without sufficient transparency into how and why websites rank in our search results. The notion that Google isn't transparent is tough for me to swallow. One of the most widely-discussed parts of Google's scoring has always been PageRank. That ""secret ingredient"" is hardly a secret. An early paper not only gave the formula for PageRank, but mentioned many of the other signals in Google's ranking, including anchor text, the location of words within documents, the relative proximity of query words in a document, the size and type of fonts used, the raw HTML of each page, and capitalisation of words. Google has continued to publish literally hundreds of research papers over the years. Those papers reveal many of the ""secret formulas"" for how Google works and document essential infrastructure that Google uses. Some of these papers have spurred not only open-source projects but entire companies in their own right. Academic papers are one thing, but Google also aims to engage and educate in many other ways. In 1999, Sergey Brin [Google co-founder] participated in the first Search Engine Strategies conference for webmasters. In 2001, Google became one of the first search engines to engage online at a publisher forum called WebmasterWorld. We've tried all sorts of experiments to help site owners understand how Google's search ranking works. We've done multiple live webmaster chats online with hundreds of simultaneous participants. We also engage online across the blogosphere to answer questions about Google's practices. The list goes on and on. At Google, we try to be as open as we can, even to the point of helping users export their data out of Google's products. At the same time, we don't think it's unreasonable for any business to have some trade secrets, not least because we don't want to help spammers and crackers game our system. Ultimately, criticising Google for its ""secret formula"" is an easy claim to make, but it just isn't true. 