James Franco deletes his Twitter account
Oscars host James Franco has disabled his Twitter account today after just a month-and-a-half on the social network site. It coincides with the transmission of an interview he recorded on Monday with David Letterman, in which he admits he had ""low energy"" during his lamented helmsmanship of the ABC telecast for the awards. Some fans of Renaissance man Franco, 32 , have also noted that he deleted his account on April Fool's Day and are hoping that the sudden disappearance is a Franconian prank. However seasoned followers say it lacks his trademark surreal humour. The 127 Hours star himself seemed to lay the matter to rest when he predicted the death of social media at a dinner in Washington, just hours before he pulled the account. Speaking at the creative writing non-profit 826DC's benefit held at the Monaco Hotel, actor, writer, artist and Ph.D student Franco said: ""Social media is over. Still up there. Going down. You heard it here first."" Franco, who was speaking to newsite Politico, added: ""My thought was ""this is my Twitter. I can do whatever I want. But certain companies I work with contacted me about what I was saying."" His tweets throughout that ill-fated hosting gig alongside Anne Hathaway, 28 , created a huge buzz on the social media site. Equally, much hype has surrounded the handsome actor posting pictures of himself sleeping with his pet cats and visceral home-made comics showcasing his acerbic wit. But a feud with seasoned Oscar writer Bruce Villanch after that disastrous night, struck a sour note amongst all the creativity. Villanch told New York magazine that Franco had too many ""balls in the air"" to focus on the job, adding: ""He didn't get there."" ""I don't think he realized how big a deal it is to do it until he was actually confronted with it."" Franco, who will hit cinemas in Your Highness alongside Danny McBride and Natalie Portman next Friday, hit back by posting a picture of himself and Villanch on his Twitter account. Over the picture, which he eventually deleted, he daubed the sarcastic caption: ""James f***ed up the Oscars. Trust me, I know comedy. I mean, come on, I write for Bette Midler!"" But last night a more serious Franco contemplated the danger to creativity that sites like Twitter and Facebook pose. Wearing a sharp grey suit with one hand running through his trademark tousled hair, he addressed the benefit. ""If you want to write, make the time,"" he encouraged. Before adding: ""We all have an hour or two a day that can be used for surfing Facebook or writing. No one is going to beg any new writer to write."" Franco, who is pursuing a doctorate at Yale, concluded: ""I feel like I didn't get a ton of support in school in creative subjects and I went to a great public school. As a kid, I would have grown from that."" 