Netflix strikes deal to stream new content while losing others
Over the past few years, Netflix has made it apparent that they envision a day when all movies and television shows will be watched exclusively online. Last fall they introduced a new plan to subscribers that was streaming only (no DVDs in the mail) for $7.99 a month. Their instant library has increased significantly after making deals with cable providers Starz and Showtime as well as networks such as NBC and CBS. Today, Netflix announced that they had reached a new deal with FOX to stream past seasons of current shows such as Glee and Sons of Anarchy as well as past shows like Ally McBeal and The Wonder Years . FOX programming has been available to Netflix subscribers previously with shows like 24 and Arrested Development . But the announcement of current shows being available to stream is interesting considering other entertainment providers are starting to pull their current shows from Netflix customers. It was announced a week ago that Showtime was pulling its current programing like Dexter and Californication from Netflix. Although as of today, seasons one and two of Dexter are still available to stream and season one of Californication is also available to watch online. But those shows will likely be pulled from instant-streaming once the current deal expires. ""Current and past seasons of our original series will be available to our authenticated subscribers via our TV Everywhere service Showtime Anytime,"" said a spokesperson with the company. Advertisement The new Showtime-Netflix deal will include the streaming of shows that are no longer on the network, such as The Tudors and Sleeper Cell . The announcement of this agreement comes after CBS and Netflix struck a deal to stream older CBS titles such as Star Trek , Cheers and Frasier . The deal however does not include current programming on the network. So while television providers are starting to renegotiate their deals with Netflix, movie studios are looking to strike lucrative deals to stream their back catalogs. According to The Wall Street Journal, the video service is close to making a deal with Miramax that would stream the studio's library of more than 700 films. The Journal says that Miramax has worked out a five-year deal with the video service for around $100 million to stream films like Pulp Fiction and The English Patient . So while television giants are becoming fickle with their current content, movie studios appear to be eager to join the leading video service and earn new revenue from past titles. 