Teacher suspended for calling her students ""future criminals""
A teacher was suspended after parents complained that she allegedly described her students as ""future criminals"" on her Facebook page. The first-grade teacher, who is in charge of six and seven-year-olds and who has not been named, wrote about feeling like ""a warden."" She was suspended with pay after several parents, having seen the posts on Wednesday, turned up at School 21 in Paterson, New Jersey, and demanded their children be taken out of her class, according to board president Theodore Best. Mr Best said: ""You can't simply fire someone for what they have on a Facebook page. But if that spills over and affects the classroom then you can take action. ""The reason why she was suspended was because the incident created serious problems at the school that impeded the functioning of the building. ""This is not first time I've heard something like this from a teacher. ""Overall, I think we have really good teachers. ""But there's also a significant population of teachers here to collect the pay check and don't have the best interests of the students in mind."" The school's superintendent Donnie Evans added: ""It's a personnel matter and we've taken action. There is an investigation underway."" The school is in a neighbourhood plagued with poverty, crime and single-parent households. But the Rev. Barry Graham, assistant pastor at Canaan Baptist Church, which is close to the school, said: ""There might be others who share the sentiments of the online remarks but all I've dealt with have shown no signs like that. ""But we can't have anyone with that attitude teaching our children."" New Jersey Education Association, the statewide teachers"" union, is said to be providing the Paterson teacher with a lawyer, northjersey.com reports. The controversy comes just weeks after a high school English teacher from outside Philadelphia was suspended for a profanity-laced blog in which she called her young charges ""disengaged, lazy whiners."" 