Google prank 2011: Gmail Motion
Gmail action MANILA, Philippines – If you were among those who started practicing how to gesture in front of your computer screens in the hope of being able to control Gmail with your acrobatics, then you’ve been had. By Google. Again. True to its notorious April Fools’ Day tradition of jokes and hoaxes, Google “officially announced” the availability of Gmail Motion for all to see, and for some to believe. Gmail Motion is allegedly “a new way to communicate” via the super futuristic and efficient human computer interaction. In other words, you gullible people, can control your Gmail with your body. If you were able to download this amazing-beyond-your-imagination application. And here is how it works, allegedly. Gmail Motion uses your computer’s built-in webcam and Google’s patented spatial tracking technology to detect your movements and translate them into meaningful characters and commands. Movements are designed to be simple and intuitive for people of all skill levels. You can familiarize yourself with some of the basic functionality of Gmail Motion using a printable guide of sample gestures. With it, you’ll be able to start writing and responding to emails – with your body — in no time. (see illustraions) Google even came out with some safety precautions — which should give you a strong hint that something’s just not right in the equation, or application. “Using Gmail Motion is not only safe but also healthy and fun. As with any physical activity, certain precautions are recommended. First, make sure to clear the area around you. Second, try to take short breaks every 30-40 minutes, just as you would if you were typing. And finally, take time to stretch after each session to give the muscles you’ll be using some relief.” “This new motion detection technology doesn’t stop with Gmail. We’re excited to announce that Google Docs Motion will be coming later this year. Learn more.” Learn more? No, it’s better to learn your lesson. Google has a tradition of creating April Fools’ Day jokes. Some of the most memorable, especially to those who were easilly duped into believing, were the Google MentalPlex which allegedly featured the use of mental power to search the web. Four April Fools’ Days ago, Google announced a free Internet service called TiSP, or Toilet Internet Service Provider, where one obtained a connection by flushing one end of a fiber-optic cable down their toilet. On the same day and year, Google’s Gmail page displayed an announcement for Gmail Paper, allowing users to have email messages printed and shipped to them. In 2010, Google jokingly changed its company name to Topeka in honor of Topeka, Kansas, whose mayor actually changed the city’s name to Google for a short amount of time in an attempt to sway Google’s decision in its new Google Fiber Project. And 2011 is no different. After Gmail Motion, other Google pranks available for downloading — if you can — are: Comic Sans — searching ‘Helvetic’ on the Google changes the font on the search page to everyone’s favorite font: Comic Sans; Chromercise; Google Earth — search for various wild and mythical animals on its maps on Google Earth; Google Blimp Ads — display your ads thru Google blimps; Google Teleport — is a website written in Simplified Chinese that allows the user to travel through space and time; and Job Openings For Autocompleters, whatever that is. Attachment 